 
  
    
IMPROVING 
THE WAY THE 
WORLD WORKS 
AND LIVES 
Corporate Citizenship Report 2018    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
CONTENTS 
OVERVIEW 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE 
ON THE COVER 
Every day, Accenture people turn technology into innovations designed to transform society at scale and 
in a responsible way. Accenture Digital Analyst Lucía Andrada Cámara is one of those innovators. 
As part of the team that created XR4 Hospitality, an immersive virtual reality training tool, she is preparing 
aspiring hospitality workers in Madrid to succeed in an increasingly complex work environment. 
“XR4 Hospitality will really prepare them to face the digital transformation that is taking place. It teaches 
them that technology is their ally, and it can help make their lives better,” said Lucía. 
Our innovators are bringing the world into “the New.” The ideas they have, the innovations they create and 
the partnerships they develop have a ripple efect that changes the lives of millions for the better. 
At left: Skills to Succeed interns in our Washington, DC locations work on projects ranging from 
developing mobile apps to assisting on our help desk, serving in client-facing roles...or even working on 
our corporate citizenship team. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OVERVIEW 
A LETTER FROM 
OUR LEADERS 
The post-digital era brings economic and social uncertainties. 
At the same time, the power of intelligent technologies is radically 
disrupting long-standing paradigms and eroding trust. We believe 
businesses must step up and positively impact society at a scale 
that makes a diference. 
Corporate citizenship has always been fundamental to the way 
Accenture operates. Guided by our responsibility to our people, 
clients, communities and the environment, we use our understanding 
of technology and its impact to help create more-inclusive societies 
that ofer more opportunities to more people. 
This commitment is brought to life by our diverse collective of 
innovators who shape ideas into far-reaching solutions to complex 
societal challenges. Together we are working to improve the lives 
of millions, now and for the next generation. 
Our 2018 Corporate Citizenship Report illustrates how we are: 
Innovating For Society 
• Skilling for the future: We committed more than US$200 million over three 
years to help equip people around the world with job skills for the digital age.
• Closing employment gaps: Along with our strategic partners, we have 
equipped more than 2.8 million people with the skills to get a job or build a 
business through Skills to Succeed.
• Helping youth envision careers: Together with Save the Children, a Skills to 
Succeed partner, we developed and are testing BecaXR—an augmented 
and virtual reality tool that helps students and out-of-school youth in 
Vietnam visualize potential career paths.
• Improving senior citizens’ lives: Our virtual homecare program, piloted in the 
United Kingdom, uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help older people manage 
their well-being. The program supports seniors in taking medication, 
completing daily exercises, accessing reading and learning materials—and can 
also spot abnormalities in behavior and alert family or friends.
OVERVIEW CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 3 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shaping Responsible Business 
• Embracing diversity as a source of creativity and competitive
differentiation: By the end of 2018, we grew our workforce to 
more than 42 percent women—up from 41 percent the prior
year—toward our goal of a gender-balanced workforce by 2025.
• Addressing climate change: We set a science-based target,
committing that by 2025, we will reduce our absolute
greenhouse gas emissions by 11 percent from our 2016 base
year. Accenture is the largest professional services company
to make this type of commitment.
• Transforming our supply chain approach: We are going beyond
responsible buying, embracing an overarching philosophy
we call Procurement Plus—we work with suppliers to advance
key priorities, including sustainability, diversity, human rights and
innovation.
• Helping organizations root out ethical problems: We have
established an AI-specific code of ethics and business values,
and have developed a blueprint for companies looking to
embrace a Responsible AI operating model.
In closing, we would like to thank our Accenture people around the world 
for their contributions in this space—with 477,000 people and a diverse 
ecosystem of partners, we can work at scale and influence the decisions 
and behaviors of those around us. Together, we are taking the best of 
Accenture and collaborating to efect positive change around the world.   
David P. Rowland 
Interim Chief 
Executive Oficer   
Laurence Morvan 
Chief of Staf – Ofice of 
the CEO & Corporate Social 
Responsibility Oficer   
Jill Huntley 
Managing Director 
Global Corporate 
Citizenship 
OVERVIEW CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 4 
OVERVIEW CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  5 
   
 
 
ACCENTURE AT A GLANCE 
We serve more than three-quarters of the FORTUNE Global 500, driving innovation to improve 
the way the world works and lives. With expertise across more than 40 industries and all business 
functions, we deliver transformational outcomes for a demanding new digital world. 
As we rapidly rotate our business to “the New”—digital-, cloud- and security-related services, 
enabled by new and innovative technology—we are helping clients create sustainable value for their 
stakeholders. We are proud that 97 of our top 100 clients have been clients for 10 years or more. 
477,000 
people serving clients in 
more than 120 countries 
$23B 
in revenue from digital-, 
cloud- and security-
related services 
nearly 
$800M 
invested in research and 
innovation to develop 
leading-edge ideas 
$927M 
invested in the 
development of 
our people 
$39.6B 
annual net revenues 
$658M 
invested in acquisitions 
6,800 
patents and pending 
patent applications 
in 44 countries 
$87M 
invested in corporate 
citizenship eforts 
Note: All figures are US dollars and are as of fiscal year-end 2018 (August 31, 2018), with the exception of 
approximate headcount (as of February 28, 2019). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUR REPORTING APPROACH 
Our 2018 Corporate Citizenship Report details the impact we made across our corporate citizenship 
reporting framework in two areas: Innovating For Society and Shaping Responsible Business. 
The report explores our corporate citizenship goals, progress and performance across our global 
operations during fiscal 2018 (ended August 31, 2018), unless otherwise noted. Our previous reports 
are available on accenture.com. 
Accountability and transparency are priorities for Accenture and are part of the foundation on which 
we build trust with our clients, our people, our investors and other stakeholders. We continually take 
steps to strengthen our reporting approach through ongoing stakeholder engagement and voluntary 
adherence to global non-financial reporting standards. 
For our 2018 report, we continue to align with the GRI Standards as a basis for disclosure. For more 
information, please see the Reporting Prioritization section and our GRI Content Index. 
We disclose our key non-financial metrics in our Performance Data Table, including data from the last 
three years. More information about our global corporate citizenship activities, including our most 
recent CDP response, is available on accenture.com. Additionally, Accenture holds a range of industry-
wide external certifications that are relevant to corporate citizenship, including ISO® 14001, ISO® 27001 
and OHSAS 18001. Current financial and governance information about Accenture can be found in our 
recent Annual Report and 2018 Proxy Statement. 
UN Global Compact 
This report serves as our tenth Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 
(UNGC) that we signed in January 2008, and it documents our progress to implement the 10 Principles 
as a member of Global Compact LEAD, which focuses on raising sustainability performance. For a 
detailed look at our progress toward addressing the 10 Principles, see our UNGC Index. 
We are very proud that since 
“
2008, Accenture has been 
committed to the 10 Principles 
of the United Nations Global 
Compact and supporting their 
eforts to advance sustainability, 
gender equality and human 
rights. These vital endeavors 
align with our core values and 
our commitment to ethical 
leadership as we strive to 
address some of the world’s 
most pressing issues.” 
David P. Rowland 
Interim Chief Executive Oficer 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W
As a LEAD member, we are committed to working toward implementing 
the Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership and sharing 
related outcomes and learnings with the broader universe of companies 
in the Global Compact. As part of our ongoing commitment, we actively 
engage with the UNGC’s UK Network’s Modern Slavery Working Group 
and its Diversity & Inclusion Network and are participants in the 
UNGC’s Decent Work in Supply Chains Action Plan Program. 
We also aim to align our Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) 
goals with the Sustainable Development Goals (see Goals & Progress). 
Our goals represent Accenture’s commitment to the seven Sustainable 
Development Goals most relevant to our business and society, 
contributing our resources and encouraging others to do likewise 
to realize the shared value of these 2030 objectives. 
Stakeholder Engagement 
We regularly engage internal and external stakeholders regarding our 
goals, our progress and performance to improve our reporting. We use 
input from a variety of groups to inform our approach and align more 
closely with stakeholder expectations (see table at right). 
In a combined efort by our Investor Relations, Corporate Citizenship and 
Legal teams, we reached out to our top 50 shareholders in August through 
October 2018 to discuss our commitment to corporate citizenship and 
environmental-, social- and governance-related matters. Additional details 
on this initiative can be found in the Ethics & Governance section of our 
chapter on Shaping Responsible Business. 
STAKEHOLDER GROUP 
EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT 
CLIENTS 
Satisfaction surveys, client account lead relation-
ships, project quality-assurance processes, 
conferences and events, responses to information 
requests (e.g., CDP Supply Chain, EcoVadis) 
CURRENT 
Surveys, internal memos and webcasts, 
ACCENTURE PEOPLE 
accenture.com, social media, Business Ethics 
Helpline, focus groups, employee resource groups 
INVESTORS 
Quarterly earnings calls, investor and analyst 
conferences, responses to investor questionnaires 
(e.g., CDP Climate Change, Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices, Institutional Shareholder 
Services), Investor Relations team outreach 
SUPPLIERS 
CDP’s Supply Chain program, Supplier Standards 
of Conduct, Diverse Supplier Development 
Program, training and mentorship 
GOVERNMENTS, 
Political Contributions and Lobbying Policy, 
MULTI-LATERALS & 
discussions via Government Relations team 
POLICY MAKERS 
NONPROFIT PARTNERS & 
FOUNDATIONS 
Long-term, strategic nonprofit partnerships 
in support of Skills to Succeed, employee 
volunteering and giving, grantee relationships 
via Accenture Foundations, advocacy and 
societal change through cross-sectoral 
coalitions, national and international forums 
POTENTIAL RECRUITS, 
Social media, accenture.com, careers blog, 
ALUMNI & CIVIL SOCIETY 
alumni forums and events, news releases 
OVERVIEW CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 7 
OVERVIEW CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  8 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting Prioritization 
To prioritize our report content, we review our non-
financial materiality matrix annually to ensure the 
topics remain accurate and relevant. Since our last 
report, Environmentally Sustainable Procurement has 
increased in importance to our business as reflected 
by the expansion of procurement emissions in our 
new carbon reduction target. Additionally, while waste 
remains a topic of interest among our stakeholders 
through various questionnaires, we assess that it has 
become a topic of less interest to stakeholders relative 
to other comparable topics such as energy and water. 
Human rights continue to be an important focus for our 
stakeholders—the areas of human rights that are most 
relevant to our business and operations are indicated 
within the materiality matrix. Topics not included on 
this matrix are not considered relevant for our non-
financial disclosures. A full review of this prioritization 
is scheduled for fiscal 2019 and will be reflected in 
our next annual Corporate Citizenship Report. 
GRI Note: The outlined sections of the matrix indicated at 
right contain the most material non-financial topics in scope 
for reporting with the GRI Standards that are included in our 
GRI Content Index. For each topic, our list of definitions of 
material topics references the specific Standards used as well 
as Management Approach information. This report has been 
prepared referencing the GRI Standards. For more information 
about these Standards, please visit the GRI website. 
IMPORTANCE TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
• Energy Use
• Water
• Carbon Emissions
• Compliance with Social
Regulation
• Inclusion, Diversity & Equal
Opportunity*
• Talent Attraction &
Development
• Employee Well-being*
• Waste, including e-waste
• Community Giving,
Engagement & Social Impact
• Compliance with
Environmental Regulation
• Enabling Clients‘ Sustainability
• Environmentally Sustainable
Procurement
• Human Rights in the
Supply Chain*
• Top-level Governance of
Environmental & Social Issues
• Data Privacy & Security/
Cybersecurity*
• Ethics & Integrity*
• Employment Conditions
and Working Practices
for Our People*
• Digital Responsibility
• Supporting Suppliers’
Sustainability
• Indirect Economic Impacts
• Distributed Economic Value
• Alignment with Voluntary
Environment, Social &
Governance Standards
• Consistency in Public
Policy & Advocacy
• Supplier Diversity
MEDIUM 
VERY HIGH
HIGH 
MEDIUM 
HIGH 
VERY HIGH 
IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS 
*Potential human rights impact
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GOALS & PROGRESS 
Innovating For Society 
KEY: 
Ongoing 
In Progress 
Achieved 
GOAL 
PROGRESS 
UPDATE 
SDG* 
DEMAND-LED SKILLING 
By the end of fiscal 2020, we will equip more than 3 million people 
with the skills to get a job or build a business. 
EMPLOYMENT & ENTREPRENEURSHIP OUTCOMES 
By the end of fiscal 2020, we will increase our focus on the 
successful transition from skill-building programs to sustainable jobs 
and businesses, and improve our collective ability to measure and 
report on these outcomes. 
To date, we have equipped more than 2.8 million people with workplace 
and entrepreneurial skills.     
In the last five years, our largest initiatives with measurable outcomes 
have helped more than 515,000 people around the world obtain a job or 
build a business. This represents approximately half of the 1.04 million 
people who were equipped with skills. To date, our programs helped 
more than 800,000 people get a job or build a business.     
COLLABORATION FOR SYSTEMIC CHANGE 
We convene or participate in cross-sectoral partnerships, both nationally 
By the end of fiscal 2020, we will bring together organizations     
and internationally. This year, we launched Inclusive Future of Work: A 
across sectors to create large-scale, lasting solutions aimed at 
Call to Action to build an ecosystem of partners to support workers in 
closing global employment gaps. 
roles at risk of automation by developing solutions for “new skilling.”  
*Our Corporate Citizenship eforts support several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
OVERVIEW CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 9 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GOALS & PROGRESS 
Shaping Responsible Business 
KEY: 
Ongoing 
In Progress 
Achieved 
GOAL 
PROGRESS 
UPDATE 
SDG* 
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY 
By the end of 2025, we will achieve a gender-balanced workforce, 
with 50 percent women and 50 percent men. 
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY 
By the end of 2020, we will increase the diversity of our leadership 
by growing our percentage of women managing directors to at least 
25 percent worldwide. 
By the end of 2018, our global workforce comprised more than 
42 percent women—up from 41 percent in 2017.   
By the end of 2018, 22 percent of our managing directors were 
women—up from 21 percent in 2017.     
In fiscal 2018, we achieved more than 5 percent reduction from our fiscal 
2016 base year, a reduction of more than 67,000 metric tons largely due   
to increased use of renewable energy and reductions in air travel. 
NEW – REDUCING GREENHOUSE GASES 
By 2025, we will reduce our absolute greenhouse gas emissions 
by 11 percent from our 2016 base year, which represents a 65 
percent absolute reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions, and 
represents a 40 percent per unit of revenue intensity reduction 
for scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions over the same time period.  
*Our Corporate Citizenship eforts support several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
OVERVIEW CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 10 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
GOALS & PROGRESS 
Shaping Responsible Business 
KEY: 
Ongoing 
In Progress 
Achieved 
GOAL 
PROGRESS 
UPDATE 
SDG* 
ENABLING CLIENT SUSTAINABILITY 
By the end of fiscal 2020, we will begin to measure and 
report the impact of our work with clients and suppliers 
in key areas of sustainability. 
SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY 
By the end of fiscal 2020, we will expand to 75 percent the 
percentage of our key suppliers who disclose their targets 
and actions toward emissions reduction. 
In fiscal 2018, we continued to measure the impact of our services 
with clients, resulting in approximately 301,000 metric tons of 
realized CO2 savings, and more than 2.6 million metric tons of 
additional CO2 savings identified.   
Through fiscal 2018, more than 74 percent of our suppliers 
disclosed their targets, and more than 80 percent disclosed 
their actions toward emissions reduction.     
SUPPLIER INCLUSION & DIVERSITY 
Through our Diverse Supplier Development Program (DSDP), 
we will develop a total of 170 small, medium and diverse suppliers by 
the end of fiscal 2020. 
ETHICS TRAINING 
We will strive to maintain employee completion rates in the high 
90th percentile for our Ethics & Compliance training each year. 
Through fiscal 2018, we developed 144 small, medium and diverse 
suppliers through our DSDP.   
In fiscal 2018, we maintained employee completion rates of more 
than 98 percent for our Ethics & Compliance training.    
*Our Corporate Citizenship eforts support several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
OVERVIEW CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AWARDS & RECOGNITION 
Recognized among 
FORTUNE’s 
World’s Most Admired Companies 
for 17 consecutive years; 
ranked No. 1 in IT Services 
category for six years 
Included on 
Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index 
North America and 
FTSE4GOOD 
Global Index, 
marking 14 consecutive years 
Included for the second 
consecutive year on 
CDP’s 
Supplier Engagement Leader 
Board, recognizing companies 
that are reducing emissions and 
lowering climate-related risks 
within their supply chains 
Recognized among 
Ethisphere’s 
World’s Most Ethical Companies, 
marking 12 consecutive years 
Recognized on 
DiversityInc’s 
Top 50 Companies for Diversity, 
marking 12 consecutive years 
and seven years in the Top 15 
Received a perfect score on 
Human Rights 
Campaign’s 
Corporate Equality Index 
each year since 2008 
Included on the 
Bloomberg 
Gender-Equality Index for the 
second consecutive year 
Received a perfect score on the 
Disability 
Equality Index 
for the second consecutive year 
Ranked No. 1 on 
Barron’s 
New Most Sustainable 
International Companies list 
Recognized among 
Working Mother’s 
100 Best Companies, 
marking 16 consecutive years 
in the US and three consecutive 
years in India 
Included on
CDP’s 
Climate Change “A List” of 
top-performing companies for 
the fourth time since 2014 
Ranked No. 2 on 
CR Magazine’s 
100 Best Corporate Citizens list, 
marking 10 consecutive years 
Included on 
Corporate Knights’ 
Global 100 Most Sustainable 
Corporations in the World list 
Included on 
FORTUNE’s 
100 Best Companies to Work For 
list for 11 consecutive years 
Ranked No. 1 on 
Thomson Reuters 
Diversity & Inclusion Index, marking 
three consecutive years 
Ranked No. 7 on the 
Wall Street Journal 
Management Top 250, 
marking two consecutive years 
OVERVIEW CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  13  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“
What’s the point of having the best 
technologies—and living in the world we 
are living in—if we are not joining forces 
to make this world better?” 
Pierre Nanterme 1959-2019 
Accenture’s 2018 Corporate Citizenship Report 
is dedicated to the memory of Pierre Nanterme, 
former Accenture Chairman & CEO, who, through 
his bold leadership and collaborative spirit, made 
our company—and the world—better and more 
inclusive places. 
Pierre was an outspoken advocate for our 
commitment to inclusion and diversity. One of 
his priorities was achieving a gender-balanced 
workforce by 2025, and he oversaw the growth in the 
percentage of women at Accenture from 35 percent 
to more than 42 percent of our global workforce. 
Additionally, under his stewardship, our Skills to Succeed 
initiative helped more than 2.8 million individuals around the 
world gain the skills to get a job or build a business. Pierre 
was equally passionate about addressing climate change. In 
December 2018, he announced our new science-based target, 
making Accenture the largest professional services company 
to set a goal of this kind. 
Pierre always referred to Accenture as a family and to himself 
as the “team captain,” rather than the CEO. “Business is very 
serious, but we can have fun doing it,” he liked to say. 
Through his wisdom, energy, humor and tireless commitment 
to our people, our clients and our initiatives, Pierre inspired 
us—his Accenture family around the world—to live our vision 
of improving the way the world works and lives. 
 
 
 
 
INNOVATING 
FOR SOCIETY 
Discover how we are leveraging technology 
to help people around the world 
SOCIAL INNOVATOR 
Yvena Atkins 
Manager – Accenture Strategy 
St. Louis, United States 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  15 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STRATEGY AND APPROACH 
With the passion of our people, our technology expertise and a broad ecosystem of partners, we develop and scale 
innovations and programs that help address society’s pressing problems. We believe as a global business, it is our 
responsibility to help create societies that ofer more opportunities to more people. From gender equality and 
climate action to decent work, economic growth and quality education, we are committed to addressing the United 
Nations’ Global Goals and contributing to the new sustainable development agenda. 
Nearly a decade ago, we took a defining step in our corporate citizenship journey. We launched our Skills to 
Succeed initiative to focus Accenture’s expertise in growing talent to address the global need to close skills gaps 
and prepare individuals to get a job or build a business. This set a meaningful precedent for our company and for 
our people—a commitment to taking the best of Accenture and applying it in a concentrated, strategic way to 
address complex social issues. 
Today, our focus on innovating for society has grown well beyond what we envisioned when we launched Skills to 
Succeed. We remain committed to skilling—in May 2018, we committed more than US$200 million over three years 
to help equip people around the world with job skills for the digital age. At the same time, we are also excited to 
continue exploring new horizons with our nonprofit partners, and often our clients, innovating together to change 
lives for the better. 
Businesses have an opportunity and a responsibility to be a force for good in the 
world. One important way we do this at Accenture is by applying the passion and 
“ 
expertise of our people, our deep knowledge of technology and its impact, and our 
strategic partnerships to create innovations that help address urgent social issues.” 
Jill Huntley 
Managing Director – Global Corporate Citizenship 
ACCENTURE SOCIAL INNOVATORS: 
IDEAS CAN CHANGE THE WORLD 
We believe that ideas can change the world— 
and that individuals can inspire a movement. 
Our new Social Innovators initiative brings to 
center the passion of Accenture people for 
discovering and creating new solutions with 
a positive impact on society. 
Our ambition is to provide opportunities for 
social innovators from across Accenture to 
learn together, to make real-world impacts— 
and to lead in responsible design. By 
designing responsibly, we are considering 
the extended consequences of each new 
innovation, both positive and negative, on 
people, our planet and the economy. 
We are proud to introduce some of our 
social innovators throughout this report. 
We celebrate their ingenuity, their creative 
spirit and their contributions to the greater 
good, as well as those of all their teammates 
and colleagues around the globe. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  16  
SOCIAL INNOVATOR 
Anish Patel 
Consultant – Accenture Digital 
Sydney, Australia 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SKILLS TO SUCCEED 
Helping 2.8M+ people get the skills they 
need to get a job or build a business 
Through Skills to Succeed we are addressing—at scale—the global need for skills that 
open doors to employment and economic opportunity. To date, with our strategic 
partners, we have equipped more than 2.8 million people with the skills to get a job or 
build a business. Our goal is more than 3 million people by the end of 2020. 
To address the changing skills demand, we are continually evolving our programs to 
include training on universal skills such as technology basics, problem solving and 
interpersonal skills, coupled with relevant specialized skills, to address local priorities 
and market-specific needs. 
With these areas in mind, we aim to support people through their employment life cycle: 
• Next Generation: Young students learning about career possibilities 
• First Job/Apprenticeships: Individuals preparing for a first job or business venture 
• Preparing the Workforce of Today: Experienced workers learning new skills 
We have dedicated teams across our countries of operation who make these programs 
relevant for their communities. In addition, our large-scale grants extend these initiatives 
to additional countries, reaching people and communities in more than 100 countries. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NEXT GENERATION 
Preparing today’s students for tomorrow’s workforce 
As disruptive technologies advance and have a growing impact 
on society, a significant skills gap is also growing. This is a 
critical issue, and addressing it can help people, companies and 
communities to be prosperous and take advantage of sustainable 
growth and ethical innovation. Through our youth-facing activities, 
we aim to close the skills gap before it starts by equipping and 
inspiring today’s students—tomorrow’s workforce—not just with 
STEM skills, but also with an understanding of how they can 
harness creativity and innovation to improve the way the world 
works and lives. 
Accenture Future Skills Builder: Learning 
experiences with greater impact 
Accenture Future Skills Builder aims to prepare the next generation 
for a digital future and to influence them to study STEM and equip 
them with #NewSkillsNow. 
Virtual reality (VR) has the potential to increase learning retention 
rates by more than 30 percent, and Accenture Future Skills Builder 
uses it in an immersive learning game, which helps teenage 
students develop critical thinking, problem solving and technical 
skills in a fun and interactive way. We collaborated with education 
experts, our nonprofit partner Junior Achievement, and Accenture’s 
Global Extended Reality and Learning communities to design a VR 
experience game. The game’s mission is to clean up the ocean, 
one of today’s most pressing environmental challenges. We piloted 
the game with 13- and 14-year-old students in Dublin schools, 
and 66 percent of the students felt they learned more from this 
experience than in a classroom setting. Teachers reported that 
the game enables self-discovery, builds confidence and fosters 
resilience by challenging students to keep working at problems 
they initially find dificult. In 2019, we are extending the Future Skills 
Builder experience to students in London. 
As we incorporate this type of capability into more Next Generation 
training opportunities, we will look to the lessons learned from 
Accenture Future Skills Builder, balancing STEM recommendations 
with advice from our VR headset manufacturer to target immersive 
learning to older students and focus on diferent ways to teach 
children under age 13.  
Accenture volunteers help Dublin students explore STEM careers 
with Future Skills Builder. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 17 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accenture volunteers: Engaging the next generation 
CoderDojo: Sparking an early interest in digital skills 
Since we opened our first CoderDojo in Dublin in 2016, Accenture 
people have mentored young “ninjas,” helping them learn coding 
while working on computer science projects. Volunteering at our 
CoderDojos is an enjoyable, positive way for Accenture people to 
impart career advice and inspire the next generation of coders. 
In 2018, Accenture volunteers hosted the first International Dojo, 
which brought together representatives from Colombia, Ireland and 
Mexico. The joint session spanned time zones and continents and 
connected students virtually with the shared goal of expanding their 
digital fluency in programming. Today, we have more than 20 dojos 
around the world—and, in 2019, we plan to expand to additional 
locations, including the Philippines and United Arab Emirates.  
Hour of Code: Bringing coding to classrooms around the globe 
For four consecutive years, we have partnered with Code.org to help 
children around the globe learn about computer science through 
Hour of Code. As part of our commitment to preparing young people 
for the digital economy, in December 2018, nearly 4,000 Accenture 
people reached an estimated 100,000+ students around the world. 
Additionally, we expanded our Accenture Intelligent Space Exploration 
Hour of Code tutorial across 15 languages to bring coding to more than 
134,000 students around the world. This fun and engaging way to learn 
to code helps students understand how humans and technology work 
together—an important first step in preparing for a digital future. 
To read more about how Accenture people contribute, visit 
Volunteering and Employee Giving. 
Young “ninjas” at our Coder Dojo in Bilbao, Spain, engage 
in hands-on learning with Accenture coaches. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 18 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIRST JOB/APPRENTICESHIPS 
Breaking down barriers 
According to Solutions For Youth Employment (S4YE), one in 
three young people worldwide are not in education, employment 
or training. Getting the global economy on track, creating new 
prosperity and eliminating extreme poverty will be impossible 
unless the public and private sectors work together to change the 
course of youth employment. Businesses can play a critical role by 
partnering with governments, nonprofits, universities and others to 
educate, train and build a next-generation high-tech workforce and 
bring young people into a more-inclusive future of work. Through 
training, internship and apprenticeship opportunities, we look 
to break down the barriers to employment, including expanding 
availability to job opportunities at Accenture. 
BecaXR: Helping youth to see—and prepare 
for—better careers 
With nonprofit partner Save the Children, we developed Better 
Careers Through Extended Reality (BecaXR), an immersive 
augmented reality/virtual reality mobile phone application that 
targets young job seekers who have limited knowledge about 
the requirements of jobs in their local market. 
BecaXR is designed for use during employability training in 
vocational schools, community centers and workplaces. The 
application allows young people to envision new careers, using 
360-degree video to immerse themselves in typical workplaces, 
and helps them practice key communication skills and build public 
speaking confidence through life-like virtual reality simulations. 
BecaXR is now in pilot in Vietnam, and we aim to expand it to 
additional geographies, ofering career counseling, job linkage 
and information on vocational career paths. 
To date, through a range of collaborations, Accenture and Save the 
Children have equipped nearly 90,000 youth in more than 10 countries 
with the skills to get a job or build a business. Over the next three years, 
we plan to equip more than 80,000 additional youth with these skills. 
As we continue to develop and provide these opportunities, we work to 
ensure that the types and levels of technologies we use are accessible 
and afordable, and tailored to the audience.  
In Da Nang, Vietnam, BecaXR helps young people visualize 
potential career pathways. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  19 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skills to Succeed Academy: Equipping people for 
employment and boosting their confidence 
Our Skills to Succeed Academy—a free digital learning platform— 
helps disadvantaged young people develop the skills and confidence 
they need to find and sustain employment. Participants are engaged 
through interactive, bite-sized modules, featuring relatable characters 
and advanced learning technologies. 
For example, Phillip, from Columbus, Ohio, United States, did not 
finish college but had a passion and aptitude for information 
technology (IT). Through our nonprofit partner Goodwill Industries 
International, he attended the Academy’s Career Exploration and 
Career Pursuit courses. Putting his learning into action boosted 
Phillip’s confidence in career planning and interviewing. He earned 
two technical certifications, found work in IT support and is now 
pursuing additional certifications. 
To date, more than 100,000 people globally have built critical 
employment skills through the Skills to Succeed Academy. We 
recently launched the Academy in the Philippines, and it is already 
available in Australia, Ireland, South Africa, the United Kingdom 
and the United States. 
Impact hiring through internships and apprenticeships 
We are committed to doing our part to connect newly skilled individuals 
with sustainable jobs—not just as a funder and strategic partner, but 
also as an enthusiastic employer of individuals who have overcome 
disadvantages and have been equipped with job readiness and market-
relevant skills. This expands our talent pools to include new groups 
of high-potential individuals, and supports our ambition to establish 
Accenture as the most inclusive and diverse organization in the world. 
In France, Latin America and the United States, our Impact Hiring 
initiative connects highly motivated, high-potential individuals from 
underrepresented groups with jobs at Accenture. 
Acces Inclusive Tech in France is the result of a pioneering collaboration 
between Accenture and Ares Group, one of the largest placement 
groups in France. Acces integrates underprivileged members of the 
community, including unemployed seniors, migrant workers, refugees 
and unskilled workers with disabilities, into the workforce. Accenture 
volunteers guide beneficiaries in skills training, and ultimately, they 
are stafed on Accenture internal and client-facing projects. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  20 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Canada and the United States, we have three impact hiring 
channels: Skills to Succeed internships, our apprenticeship 
program and direct hiring. 
Our Skills to Succeed Internship Program provides early career 
exposure and on-the-job work experience at Accenture for high 
school students and young adults who are referred to us by our 
nonprofit partners. In fiscal 2018, we hosted nearly 200 interns 
across 22 cities. 
Accenture’s apprenticeship program ofers a pathway to full-time 
employment for non-traditional hires. Structured as an earn-and­
learn model, the program helps apprentices become job-ready for 
specific technology and business roles. In addition to providing the 
opportunity to build a career at Accenture to individuals without a 
four-year college degree, the initiative lays a foundation to reskill 
those whose jobs have been—or will be—disrupted by technology. 
By the end of 2019, Accenture will have trained 450 apprentices in 
the United States. In Canada, we are expanding our program to 
100 apprentices by 2020. 
For direct hiring, we connect individuals from nonprofit partner training 
programs, including the Institute for Veterans and Military Families, NS2 
Serves and Upwardly Global, with Accenture Human Resources to fill 
existing demand. In fiscal 2018, we made 55 direct impact hires. 
In Brazil, Colombia and Mexico, our Start program provides low-
income individuals with the business and technical skills they need 
to build meaningful, lasting careers in technology or business 
process—with an opportunity to be hired by Accenture. Made 
possible by the collaboration with our partners Corporación Minuto 
de Dios, Fundación ProEmpleo, Instituto Ser Mais and Rede Cidadã, 
the Start program has helped more than 500 individuals gain 
employment. For instance, Yessica Rodríguez in Colombia aspired 
to work in the IT sector but did not have the experience needed to 
get a job. After completing the Start program, Yessica was hired by 
Accenture, and says, “I now see myself in the future helping society 
from my experience. This project will change the lives of many 
people, as it has mine.”  
Accenture apprentices and Leaders celebrate the launch of our 
Atlanta Innovation Hub. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 21 
   
 
 
Plan International: Finding new ways to reach and 
coach vulnerable job seekers 
We are working with Plan International to find innovative new ways 
to reach—at scale—vulnerable and disadvantaged young people 
who are seeking their first job or aiming to start a business. Our 
Wired for Work collaboration in Indonesia and the Philippines aims 
to equip nearly 14,000 marginalized youth—with a special focus on 
women—with life skills and market-driven technical skills, with an 
increased emphasis on the use of digital and innovative approaches 
to reach more people. 
In the Philippines, as part of this partnership, we have created the 
Training and Employment Support Service Assessment (TESSA) 
chatbot—an AI-enabled tool that leverages Facebook Messenger to 
provide personalized coaching to users as they build resumes and 
identify skills, training and employment opportunities. Through in-
person dialogues with students, we were able to gain rich insights 
regarding the challenges they face, the skills they need and their 
career ambitions. The resulting coaching from TESSA prompts 
a young person to follow through on opportunities and actions, 
directing and motivating them to fulfill their potential. 
This is just one example of our partnership with Plan International. 
Together, we expect to skill more than 48,000 people across Africa, 
Europe, Latin America, North America and Southeast Asia by 2021.    
Students in Manila test the AI-powered TESSA chatbot, providing feedback on its efectiveness. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 22 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PREPARING THE WORKFORCE OF TODAY 
Experienced workers learning new skills 
Today, intelligent technologies such as analytics, big data, AI and 
robotics are reshaping work and automating routine tasks, while 
augmenting activities that involve social, emotional and cognitive skills. 
These ongoing changes ofer tremendous opportunity for future and 
current workers to learn new skills and create more value. Accenture’s 
report, “Reworking the Revolution,” found that by 2022, AI alone could 
increase revenues by 38 percent and employment by an average of 10 
percent across Brazil, France, Germany, Japan, South Africa, the United 
Kingdom and the United States. 
At Accenture, we are bringing new skills that supplement an employee’s 
existing expertise to create an inclusive future of work—a future in 
which all employees have the motivation, means and opportunity to 
thrive in the digital economy.  
At a brainstorming session hosted by Accenture, community leaders in St. Louis 
discuss solutions for empowering mid-career workers in roles at risk of automation. 
Inclusive Future of Work: A call to action 
Inclusive Future of Work is an action-oriented, research-driven initiative 
that seeks to transition mid-career employees who are in less-complex 
roles that are at risk of becoming automated to new careers. Based on 
surveys of more than 14,000 employees and 1,200 employers, it uses 
human-centered design to understand the needs of employees. 
Based on our findings, we developed a framework to support mid-career 
workers as they embrace new career pathways: 
• Envision: Helping employees prepare for the path forward
by building resilience, expanding horizons and inspiring action
from within.
• Expand: Providing the resources to build future-proof, market-
relevant skills so the transition between roles is faster and easier.
• Experience: Enabling employees to build work history, exercise
adaptability and demonstrate their abilities to employers.
• Empower: Supporting lifelong learning through skill-sharing,
mentorship, networking and peer-to-peer support.
We are building an ecosystem of partners to design, develop and pilot 
solutions that address the challenges faced by this population. Our 
first projects, in the United Kingdom and the United States, served as 
laboratories to test and improve our new skilling framework: 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  23 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• In the United Kingdom, our key innovation partner was
Tottenham Hotspur Foundation, which focuses on revitalizing
North London by creating greater employment opportunities
for residents. Together, we delivered a new technology asset
that provides strengths-based assessments to help residents
learn about potential career paths at a new stadium for the
Tottenham Hotspur Football Club, which will bring 3,500 new
jobs to the area.
• In the United States, we partnered with two government-
funded public workforce agencies and a nonprofit new skilling
organization, all of which connect job seekers to training
programs and employment, help employers diversify their
workforce and assist youth with career skills. In the past, these
agencies have served more than 30,000 people.
Most recently, we expanded on what we learned from these 
projects and have formed new partnerships to deliver a scalable 
model that can be replicated across geographies to help 
transition job seekers to automation-resilient work.  
At our Madrid Digital Hub, a job seeker enters the immersive 
experience of XR4 Hospitality. 
XR4 Hospitality: Virtual reality training to develop skills 
and confidence 
In Spain, we have collaborated with a variety of social organizations, companies 
and public organizations, including the Agency for Employment of the Madrid 
City Council, ITER Foundation, Meliá Hotels International, Secretariado Gitano 
Foundation, Spanish Red Cross and Tomillo Foundation to provide VR training 
for those seeking employment in the hospitality industry. 
The VR training enhances standard vocational training by simulating situations 
hospitality workers can face and improves their ability to meet challenges 
once on the job. The simulated events involve a variety of scenarios and 
include training on digital elements and required interpersonal skills. 
Following the training, participants receive detailed feedback on what they 
did well and areas for improvement. Within three months of launching the 
training in November 2018, six organizations began using it to train young 
people looking for careers in hospitality. 
Sky’s the Limit/YBUSA: Connecting entrepreneurs to 
training and funding using AI 
As part of Accenture’s long-standing relationship with Youth Business 
International, Accenture Labs helped Youth Business USA develop the 
skysthelimit.org platform, which uses AI analytics to connect budding 
entrepreneurs with resources, skills training and mentoring. 
In fiscal 2018, we created and piloted a new blockchain solution that allows 
donors to vote for eligible entrepreneurs on skysthelimit.org. This opens 
a funding round during which young entrepreneurs create and promote 
campaign pages, outlining their stories and business strategies. Donors then 
purchase tokens to vote on entrepreneurs’ campaigns, and, at the end of the 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 24 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
funding round, the entrepreneur with the most tokens trades them in 
for a grant that can be applied to business expenses. The first winner, 
US-based Founders Spark, received a grant to use toward its mission 
of introducing new and aspiring entrepreneurs, into the start-up 
community as well as providing them the tools they need to succeed. 
Additionally, we helped expand the platform’s global reach through 
Fate Nigeria, TechnoServe South Africa and Youth Business Caribbean. 
Accenture Development Partnerships 
Accenture Development Partnerships brings Accenture capabilities 
and experience to help the international development sector 
address the most-complex social, economic and environmental 
issues of our time. Our teams have delivered more than 1,500 
engagements spanning more than 90 countries since 2003. 
Eligible Accenture people can apply for six-month assignments with 
the program, which undertakes projects within the nonprofit sector 
in the developed and developing world, providing access to our 
highly skilled talent at significantly reduced rates. These projects 
are also an investment in high-performing people, ofering them the 
opportunity to stretch their proven skills and experience in a unique 
working environment. In fiscal 2018, approximately 500 Accenture 
people contributed to the greater good through Accenture 
Development Partnerships. 
San Francisco, US-based Consultant Kira Gidron, says, “Working 
in a role in which I could create social impact has been a goal of 
mine since college. The more time I spend working on Accenture 
Development Partnerships projects, the more I realize the unique 
position we are in to make systemic changes, working across the 
government, private and international development sectors.” 
World Vision: Financial resilience—innovation in microfinance 
through customer centricity 
Accenture, Community Economic Ventures Inc., VisionFund 
International, World Vision, and a finance institution's foundation 
came together with a shared vision. 
We wanted to design a scalable, viable, yet truly human solution 
to enhance resilience of impoverished communities in rural areas 
across Southeast Asia. We started our journey in the Philippines, 
where Accenture Development Partnerships became immersed 
in local communities and gained valuable insights into the risks, 
needs and desires of microfinance clients. 
We brought what we learned into an innovation workshop, led 
by Accenture Development Partnerships, with experts from 
microfinance, insurance and communities where the ecosystem 
of microfinance was challenged. After a series of rapid ideation 
and prototyping exercises, this collaboration resulted in the 
prototyping of a digital tool that could redefine the relationship 
between microfinance field agents and their clients in developing 
communities. Data-driven insights from the tool will allow 
organizations to better listen to and respond to the needs of the 
developing market. We believe this will promote positive financial 
health-seeking behaviors, and support access to financial products 
and other non-financial services to improve resilience and prosperity 
for impoverished families. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 25 
 
 
TECHNOLOGY & 
SOCIETY 
In addition to designing innovative workforce solutions, 
Accenture is using the power of new technologies such 
as AI, blockchain and extended reality to address a variety 
of complex societal challenges in areas including health, 
human rights, inclusion and environmental sustainability. 
We believe through these technologies we can create 
solutions that make a positive, lasting impact for people 
and communities in ways that were not previously possible. 
SOCIAL INNOVATOR 
Rob O'Connor 
Associate – Accenture Technology 
London, United Kingdom 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEALTH 
Virtual homecare: Helping older citizens 
live independently 
The number of older people physically and socially isolated at home is 
rising rapidly around the globe. Because these people often do not 
have family members living nearby to help, the situation has created a 
new population of vulnerable people. 
AI can help older people improve their physical and mental well-being. 
Our virtual homecare program—inspired by work started in our 
AI4Good Hackathon—runs on Amazon Web Services technologies, 
using voice and vision technologies to enable video calls, medicine and 
exercise reminders, reading material and event searches. The program 
can spot abnormalities in behavior and alert family or friends, based on 
user-defined permissions. When virtual homecare was piloted in senior 
citizens’ homes in London through a partnership with Age UK London 
and Hanover Housing Association, participants reported an improved 
connection to their community and families. 
E-Healthworker: Innovating to improve child health in
hard-to-reach areas
In the Philippines, community health workers combat malnourishment 
among the children they serve, often traveling long distances to 
provide manual child health assessments that are delivered on paper 
to a centralized health team, who reviews them and provides suggested 
treatment plans. The health worker must then travel back to where the 
children live to advise guardians of the diagnosis. This manual process 
can delay treatment for months, sometimes with tragic results. 
Manila-based Accenture Technology Team Lead Glory Dela Paz learned 
of the issue from her sister, a doctor in the area, and felt compelled to 
find a solution. By leveraging her network, she led a team of colleagues 
to create an Android-enabled application, E-Healthworker, as part of 
the Global Technology Innovation Challenge. The app enables health 
workers to decrease response time by inputting a child’s body 
measurements and instantaneously receiving the child’s nutrition 
status. They can then administer a treatment plan that same day. 
The team is now working with Save the Children to improve the 
application further and pilot test it with community health workers 
in Metro Manila. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 27 
   
 
 
 
 
HUMAN RIGHTS 
Grameen Foundation: Providing access to finance to 
women in India 
In partnership with the Grameen Foundation India, we developed 
two innovations to help women and low-income citizens overcome 
barriers to accessing financial services. EASE (Emotion Analytics for 
Social Enterprises) is a mobile and web app that uses AI to glean 
key insights into the emotional and cognitive state of an individual. 
This helps microfinance advisers spot if any undue pressure is being 
placed on female loan applicants, and it helps organizations identify 
the right talent for recruitment and career progression. 
Grameen Guru is a tool that uses augmented reality, image 
recognition and a multilingual chatbot to help smartphone users 
with limited literacy understand available financial products and 
services. By holding their phone camera over a product brochure 
or icon, users get instant access to the Guru chatbot, which can 
explain their options in clear, simple language. 
By developing and deploying these apps, we help equip women 
with the information they need to make informed financial 
decisions. This gives them greater control over their lives, 
enabling them to start small businesses, invest in their local 
communities and better cope with crises. 
Circular Supply Chain: Improving sustainability, 
eficiency and fairness with blockchain 
The ability to promote sustainability across the supply chain has 
never been more important. In fact, according to a US-based survey, 
two-thirds of consumers state a preference for sustainable brands. 
Innovative technologies like blockchain allow for greater transparency 
and traceability, so socially and eco-conscious consumers can be 
better informed about where their products are originating. 
We have created a blockchain-based circular supply-chain solution 
designed to improve the sustainability, eficiency and financial 
fairness of global supply chains. Using the transparency that 
blockchain provides, the ability to verify digital identities of each 
actor across the supply chain and real-time payment technologies, 
consumers are directly connected to producers and enabled to 
reward their sustainable practices through a financial contribution. 
For example, when buying a cup of cofee in Brussels, a consumer 
could choose to designate a small donation to the farmer in Thailand 
who grew the organic beans. Building a closer connection between 
consumers and small growers encourages an inclusive and ethical 
economy where positive action helps mitigate environmental impact. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 28 
   
 
 
 
 
INCLUSION 
BleeTech: Enabling hearing-impaired dance 
students to feel the beat 
Learning to dance can be challenging for anyone. For hearing-
impaired dance students at the Red Cross Society’s School for 
the Deaf in Pune, India, distinguishing and responding to the 
subtle rhythms in a piece of music was even more dificult. 
To enhance their learning experience, BleeTech created the 
BleeWatch, which enables hearing-impaired dance students 
to physically feel the music’s beat through haptic feedback. 
Originally, the BleeWatch provided a limited range of music 
because any rhythmic patterns had to be manually extracted 
and programmed. Accenture Labs addressed this limitation 
by using state-of-the art music analysis to help BleeTech 
automatically extract the beat pattern and tempo of any piece 
of music. The solution also ensured multiple BleeWatches 
could be synchronized to the same beat for group lessons. 
WATCH A VIDEO    
BleeTech watches help hearing-impaired dance students in Pune, India, feel the music. 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 29 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 
H&M Foundation Global Change Award: Groundbreaking 
ideas for big change 
It is possible to reuse or recycle approximately 90 percent of the clothing thrown 
away today, but only 15 percent of unwanted clothing is currently donated or 
recycled. Making the fashion industry more sustainable is a massive paradigm 
change—one best made via an ecosystem of partners and open innovation. 
In response, the Global Change Award was founded in 2015 by the nonprofit 
H&M Foundation, in partnership with Accenture and KTH Royal Institute of 
Technology. It is one of the world’s biggest yearly challenges for early-stage 
innovation and the first initiative of its kind in the fashion industry, aiming to 
make fashion more sustainable. Submissions for the award propose ideas that 
apply disruptive technology and new business models to change the way 
garments are designed, produced, shipped, bought, used and recycled. 
In 2018, the Global Change Award received more than 6,600 submissions from 
more than 180 countries. Each year, five winning innovations are selected and 
awarded a €1 million grant and a one-year-long accelerator program in Hong 
Kong, New York and Stockholm. The accelerator is designed to help the winners 
maximize their impact on the fashion industry through coaching, skill-building 
and connecting them with important stakeholders in the fashion ecosystem. 
Previous winners’ innovations include making sustainable bio-textiles by using 
leftovers from food crop harvests, turning algae into bio-fiber and eco-friendly 
dye that is also good for the skin, and using the self-healing characteristics in 
squid genes to create fabric that is biodegradable and 100 percent recyclable.  
Winners of the Global Change Award participate in a one-year accelerator 
program in Hong Kong, New York and Stockholm provided by H&M 
Foundation, Accenture and KTH Royale Institute of Technology. 
WATCH A VIDEO 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 30 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CASE STUDY  
Students participate in the 2018 LetsApp Hackathon 
in Milan, where they presented the apps they created 
and their business plans. 
Samsung Electronics Italia: Addressing the digital divide in Italy 
Samsung Electronics Italia sought to empower future generations through digital learning. 
Client challenge 
Italy is falling behind other European Union countries in digital development. To help address this divide, 
Samsung Electronics Italia, a leading consumer technology company, is committed to investing in high school 
students’ digital skills to prepare them for successful careers. After previous attempts to find an efective 
solution, Samsung Electronics Italia hoped to establish a lasting and impactful program in partnership with the 
Italian Ministry of Education, University and Research (the Ministry). 
Solution 
Accenture worked with Samsung Electronics Italia to create LetsApp, a free online learning course that introduces 
students to the digital world and transforms their ideas into practical entrepreneurial projects. LetsApp teaches 
digital skills, like coding, combined with soft skills such as marketing and business. After completing the online 
course, students work in teams to design and build an app that solves a real problem afecting safety and security 
in their local community. The teams then develop a business plan for their app and present at a hackathon. The 
winning team is rewarded with an educational trip to Samsung’s global headquarters in Korea. 
Result 
More than 50,000 students in 4,000 high schools (half of the public secondary schools in Italy) participated 
in the first two editions of LetsApp—record-breaking participation for an educational project. More than 60 
percent of the students who participated have expressed interest in exploring career paths with a digital focus, 
such as an IT job. The app resulted in an extended partnership with the Ministry through 2019 and has shown 
universal reach that is highly scalable and potentially replicable for all European countries. 
LEARN MORE 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 31 
 
 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY 
A LOOK AHEAD 
In fiscal 2019, we are continuing to make progress 
toward our goals and address our challenges by: 
LOOKING 
to the next horizon for Skills to Succeed as we rapidly approach our goal 
of equipping 3 million people with skills to get a job or build a business. 
INTEGRATING 
the findings from our Inclusive Future of Work research and pilots into our 
Skills to Succeed oferings to help beneficiaries seize the opportunities 
and build greater economic resilience in the digital age—especially for 
vulnerable and marginalized populations. 
EXPANDING 
our Social Innovators program to enable more of our people to bring their 
talents to bear on tackling entrenched social challenges. 
The Dock in Dublin is a destination where we explore and experience how digital 
and emerging technologies will transform businesses and society. 
 
 
 
 
 
SHAPING 
RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS 
Discover how we practice and promote 
responsible business around the globe 
SOCIAL INNOVATOR 
Nisha Ramachandra 
Principal – Accenture Technology 
Bengaluru, India 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STRATEGY AND APPROACH 
Global economic and social uncertainties, coupled with 
ongoing technology change, continue to upend markets and 
intensify competition. In times of disruption, trust is paramount. 
Organizations have an opportunity to create and maintain trust 
by responding to growing demands for inclusive and responsible 
business—and by innovating with integrity. 
At Accenture, we have always believed that a responsible approach 
to business is fundamental to success, protecting our people, our 
company and clients, while diferentiating us in the marketplace. 
The size and scale of our business gives us the opportunity to 
help shape business practices and society for the better, whether 
by creating innovative solutions with our clients or by working 
alongside our partners to support the communities in which 
we live and work. 
Guided by our core values, we develop technology solutions to 
help clients transform their businesses and address some of the 
world’s most pressing problems. We hold ourselves to the highest 
standards, and we act with the principles of transparency, foresight 
and inclusion to address all stakeholders’ interests in the pursuit of 
ethical innovation and inclusive growth. As part of our commitment 
to responsible business, we operate by the same values and 
principles wherever we have a presence, enabled by our core 
values, our Code of Business Ethics (COBE), and our global policies 
and procedures. This includes supporting and respecting the 
principles of internationally recognized human rights (as part of our 
continuing LEAD membership of the United Nations Global Compact) 
in every aspect of our business and operations. 
Our commitment to running our business responsibly is reflected 
in how we serve our clients and deliver our work to clients and 
within our ecosystem. We bring this commitment to life through 
our policies and initiatives related to our people, the environment, 
our supply chain, and ethics and governance. These policies 
specifically relate to how we design and deliver our services and 
how we operate our business. Our policies also include eforts to 
develop the most diverse and inclusive workforce in the world, 
address climate change, and support and respect human rights. 
Our policies are intended to promote the responsible adoption of 
new technologies, including through responsible use of artificial 
intelligence (AI), data security and more. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 34 
 
 
 
 
 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT | 35
OUR PEOPLE 
A diverse collective of innovators, 
making a diference in the world 
A critical part of our talent strategy is continuously investing 
in developing and growing each of our 477,000 people as 
they work together solving industries’ and organizations’ most 
challenging issues. From engaging employee experiences 
to providing an environment where everyone feels like they 
belong—our commitment to equality for all starts at the top 
with our CEO and Board of Directors, and we expect leaders at 
all levels to help create and sustain a culture of equality where 
everyone can advance and thrive.  
SOCIAL INNOVATOR 
Lucía Andrada Cámara 
Analyst – Accenture Digital 
Madrid, Spain 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE 
Critical skills for the constantly disrupted world of work 
The story of each Accenture person—their whole, authentic self— 
drives how we help our people discover and develop their talents. 
We provide opportunities for our people at all levels to challenge 
themselves professionally, collaborate with and learn from diverse 
teams, and enhance their personal growth—in ways that work for 
them. Equipped with leading-edge technology, opportunities for 
continuous learning and a tightly knit global community, our people 
are well prepared for today’s constantly changing world of work, 
innovating together to solve industries’ and organizations’ most 
challenging problems. 
Creating the workforce of the future: Elevating our people 
The very way work gets done—inside and outside Accenture—is 
constantly being disrupted. Career paths are no longer linear, and 
time to focus on professional development outside of work is limited. 
We provide our people with the tools and skills to provide flexibility, 
so they can discover new talents and build new skills on their time, as 
the workforce keeps pace with the digital revolution. 
To ensure we have the specialized skills we need to meet our clients’ 
changing needs, we invested US$927 million in fiscal 2018 in learning 
and professional development for our people, including substantial 
investments in “new skilling” to help our people stay relevant. 
Through new skilling, we are elevating our people’s abilities by providing 
supportive training and on-the-job learning opportunities. As a result, we 
have helped our people in low-demand or obsolete skill areas shift into roles 
requiring high-demand skills. During fiscal 2018, we expanded our new 
skilling approach with a focus on three dimensions: 
• New Skilling at Scale: Identify potential roles at risk of becoming 
redundant and provide upskilling or cross-skilling opportunities in 
growing domains. 
• New Skilling at Speed: Indicate when a group of employees are at risk of 
being displaced and provide skilling and redeployment opportunities. 
• Just-in-Time Skilling: Provide real-time matching of open, in-demand 
roles, with individuals with adjacent skills and aspirations to develop new 
skills through training and job shadowing. 
As part of our pivot to the New, we are using automation and AI to create 
our Next Horizon Skills Dashboard, which leverages market workforce data 
to identify emerging strategic skill gaps. Through the dashboard, we can 
pinpoint the need for new skilling at scale and just-in-time skilling so that 
our workforce can be trained on skills to meet the growing demand—now 
and in the future. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 36 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  37 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through our new skilling eforts, we continue to make significant progress in helping our people pivot to the New. Our 
New IT program enables us to prioritize skill investments to meet specialized demand in real time. Over the past three 
years, we trained nearly 300,000 of our people in new technologies, including automation, Agile development and 
intelligent platforms. 
Additionally, we further enhanced the areas of mobility, personalization and flexibility—how, where and when our 
people collaborate—in our training, by ofering more ways to access learning experiences through Accenture 
Connected Learning—a blend of classroom-based training and digital learning environments. In 2018, our people 
completed approximately 30 million activities through our nearly 2,600 learning boards—on-demand educational 
modules across a wide range of topics—including technology, strategy, talent, business and industry, among others. 
To increase learning retention and return on investments, we extensively research brain science (such as 
neuroscience, behavioral psychology and social physics) to understand what makes learning efective. From this 
research, we developed our Durable Learning model, which captures the factors that help people learn, retain and 
access information. This model informs all new and existing Accenture learning. The model also includes important 
elements that compose the learning—what we want our people to see, feel and believe when they engage in learning. 
This creates more adept learners, more memorable learning experiences and more engaging learning environments. 
Specialization at scale 
As part of our talent transformation, we debuted our “Specialization at Scale” program. With 477,000 people, we 
needed a robust and agile way to ensure that the right team, with the right skills, is ready at the right time to spark 
innovation. Rather than having individuals self-report on skills, AI infers an employee’s skills and specializations. 
In such programs, transparency is key. Accenture people receive information about how their specialization was 
derived, how the algorithms work and how to immediately update their specialization if they disagree. Areas of 
specialization, learning opportunities and advancement are also part of ongoing, real-time conversations that 
people have with career counselors, helping them to remain relevant. 
BUILDING AN AGILE WORKFORCE 
Agile Workforce is a digital solution that 
allows us to create an internal “gig” 
workforce using spare capacity in our 
organization to meet resource demands. This 
solution is more than just a resourcing model 
for our people—it is a means of working in a 
flexible, dynamic way with access to teams 
and experience far beyond their day jobs. 
Our people get to build and apply their skills 
to projects they find interesting or build skills 
for entirely new roles. Agile Workforce also 
helps team leads quickly find individuals with 
the right skills for short-term tasks. 
   
 
 
 
Performance Achievement: A human-centric approach, 
built on strengths and in-the-moment feedback 
Accenture is committed to helping our people achieve their best 
performance every day. Introduced in fiscal 2016, the Performance 
Achievement experience, supported by patented technology, 
helps our people bring the best of who they are to what they do. 
The Performance Achievement experience is designed not only 
to elevate individual performance, but also the performance of a 
team. Team leaders regularly discuss the priorities, strengths and 
engagement of the team, using data from an engagement survey 
they can distribute autonomously, and incorporating ongoing real-
time feedback shared within the team. 
By the end of fiscal 2018, more than 64 percent of Accenture 
people completed strengths assessments, and our leaders have 
created more than 780,000 unique actions to help our people 
define what is next for their careers at Accenture. Additionally, our 
people had provided more than 1.9 million instances of feedback 
to each other—critical to enabling a culture of performance. 
The chief priority of Performance Achievement in fiscal 2019 is 
embedding the everyday habits that will drive great performance 
in the context of the work environment. These include asking for 
and sharing feedback, as well as habits such as taking care of our 
bodies and minds, checking in and listening, and saying thank 
you. We are establishing these habits through a network of nearly 
500 “Culture Coaches” around the world. 
Developing leaders at all levels: Cultivating our 
Leadership DNA 
Through our Leadership DNA, we continue to define what it means 
at Accenture to be a leader at all levels by focusing on the outcomes 
that represent a new kind of leader—one who experiments, inspires 
others, works across boundaries and adapts to the constant change 
around us. Since its launch in 2017, we have evolved the program 
to be more tailored for our various businesses and geographies and 
have further embedded the Leadership DNA practice into a leader’s 
career journey at Accenture. 
In fiscal 2018, our RISE Leadership Journey—a robust 30-60-90­
day plan of actions for new senior manager, manager and associate 
manager promotions and hires—embedded Leadership DNA by 
centering the program around its principles—learning by doing and 
practicing versus only listening. Each participant was able to reflect 
on their personal path and areas for growth, and was assigned a 
leadership challenge around which they co-created solutions with 
others in the workshop.  
Around the world, our people come together for multi-day immersive 
learning, professional development and networking sessions. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 38 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CREATING TRULY HUMAN EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCES 
Helping our people be their best selves, professionally and personally 
Accenture is on a journey to be the most truly human organization in the digital age. To accomplish this goal, we are helping 
our people maintain and enhance their physical energy, mental focus, value and purpose amid disruptions produced 
by today’s relentless technological pace of change and 24/7 connectedness. We are changing the ways we work, taking 
advantage of technology and empowering our people. To ensure our people are their whole, best selves, we are improving 
the way they work and live. 
Fostering employee well-being 
We are committed to providing our people with programs that enable them to take care of themselves and their 
families—and that fit with their lifestyles. It is important to our people that they are healthy and that their work and life 
are in sync. For example, we: 
• Developed our Truly Human workshop, based on scientific health and well-being research, in partnership with wellness 
company Thrive Global. Accessible to all our people, the workshop includes self-assessments, journaling and science to 
help teams to think about how they work and agree to make small changes to their daily routines. 
• Launched our global Stop:Start campaign, which encourages our people to share what micro-changes they are making to 
be at their best, and creates a forum for them to publicly commit so others will listen and keep them challenged. 
• Teamed with Potential Project—a global leader in corporate mindfulness—to create the Accenture Mindfulness Program, 
which helps our people learn how to train their minds to become more mentally focused. 
• Are working to create truly human experiences across our ofice locations, introducing diferent workspace configurations 
for sitting, standing and lounging, healthy snack options and providing spaces for prayer and meditation. 
MENTAL HEALTH ALLIES 
Mental Health Allies serve as 
ambassadors and advocates who 
can help point colleagues facing 
mental health challenges to the 
support they may need, such as our 
Employee Assistance Program, 
flex-work arrangements, HR 
policies and emergency support. 
They also conduct monthly 
educational webinars that are open 
to anyone. Globally, Accenture has 
nearly 3,000 Mental Health Allies 
and programs in 17 countries with 
plans to add more in fiscal 2019. 
In the United States, our Mental 
Health Allies program has trained 
more than 200 volunteers in more 
than 30 ofice locations within just 
one year of its launch. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  39 
   
 
 
 
 
Creating a safe workplace 
Part of empowering our people to be at their best is helping to ensure rigorous 
health and safety programs for employees and guests in our ofices as well as 
the thousands of Accenture people delivering services on site for our clients. 
Workplace safety is one of the tenets of our Code of Business Ethics—to provide 
a safe, secure and non-threatening work environment. 
In our ofices, we have developed global internal standards for safety and 
security, while also maintaining our OHSAS 18001:2007 certification—a standard 
for occupational health and safety—in Brazil, Ireland, Italy, Spain, the United 
Kingdom and our largest site in Bengaluru, India. We also support geographies 
currently working toward OHSAS 18001 certification. 
Additionally, we have updated several of our processes and technologies to align 
them with internationally accepted standards. These include global processes 
for the safety and security of persons with disabilities, which have been written 
and reviewed by external industry experts. Our corporate access and monitoring 
architecture helps ensure our people and guests visiting our ofices are kept safe 
and secure, and that our data and the privacy of our people are protected. 
Our Global Asset Protection (GAP) team is responsible for providing business 
continuity and security in the form of emergency assistance as needed during our 
peoples’ work or business travel. GAP maintains a 24/7 Global Watch program to 
assist our people with security risks and health advice, and promotes awareness 
among our people traveling to high-risk locations. In recent years, we added 
technical tracking resources to enhance our response and focus on the safety 
of our people during crises.  
Our Global Asset Protection team protects our people 
as they travel. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 40 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACCELERATING EQUALITY FOR ALL 
Ensuring our people feel like they belong 
Our ambition is to be the most inclusive and diverse company in the world. We are committed 
to finding the right people who embrace our “culture of cultures” and provide them an 
environment where they experience a true sense of belonging, where they can be their best, 
professionally and personally. 
We believe that diversity is a source of innovation, 
creativity and competitive advantage and creates a 
“ 
workplace where everyone feels equally accepted 
with a real sense of belonging.” 
Ellyn Shook 
Chief Leadership & Human Resources Oficer 
Creating an open, inclusive culture means cultivating a place where people can feel 
comfortable engaging in honest, open dialogue about dificult topics—such as bias and 
inclusion—without judgment or career limitation. In 2018, we launched our first-ever 
interactive documentary video-style training, “Unconscious Bias—Mitigating It Together,” 
which explained how to identify micro-aggressions in the workplace. To date, more than 
40,000 of our managers and above have taken the mandatory course with resoundingly 
positive feedback. At the end of the course, we provide a set of actionable steps for both 
individuals and teams to mitigate unconscious bias. 
GENDER SWAP: EXTENDED REALITY 
FOR A CHANGE OF PERSPECTIVE 
To help leaders be aware and examine behaviors 
about gender bias and stereotyping, we partnered 
with a digital design firm Manzalab in France to 
develop the Gender Swap app. In 2018, our Paris 
ofice piloted the app among 200 senior managers 
and managing directors who were preparing for 
performance rating meetings. To create a realistic 
experience, we scripted six five-minute scenarios 
for the app around a woman’s pending promotion 
with possible stereotypical exchanges. The scripts 
put our senior managers and managing directors 
into the shoes of employees experiencing gender 
bias and stereotyping. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 41 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gender equality: Setting bold goals to achieve 50/50 
At Accenture, we believe the future workforce is an equal 
workforce and that gender diversity is essential for an innovation-
led organization. On the path to gender equality, we have set bold 
goals. For instance, we are well on our way to achieving a gender-
balanced workforce, with 50 percent women and 50 percent men, 
by 2025. In fiscal 2018, women comprised more than 42 percent 
of our global workforce. In March 2017, we announced a goal to 
increase the proportion of our women managing directors in our 
workplace to at least 25 percent worldwide by the end of 2020. 
Globally, our mentoring, sponsorship and leadership development 
programs have helped us increase the representation of women 
among leadership and our promotion rates at the senior levels. 
By the end of fiscal 2018, women accounted for: 
• 22 percent of managing directors and 47 percent of our new hires. 
• 29 percent of our executives (manager and above). 
• 42 percent of our global workforce, up from 41 percent in 2017. 
• 25 percent of our Global Management Committee. 
• 36 percent of our external board of directors, including 
our lead director. 
According to our research, “Getting to Equal 2018: When She Rises, 
We all Rise,” company culture is key to unlocking gender equality 
and narrowing the pay gap. Our research found 40 workplace 
factors that create a culture of equality—including 14 factors that 
matter the most—and modeled the potential impact of these factors 
on the gender balance of the workplace and on women’s pay. 
In addition to publishing our workforce demographics annually— 
including gender—across key geographies, we disclose our 
gender pay gap data in the United Kingdom in line with new 
government regulations. We strive to ensure that all our people 
are compensated fairly and equitably from the moment we hire 
them through the milestones of their careers. We conduct rigorous 
analyses country by country, looking carefully at specific roles. 
If we identify a problem, we fix it. 
Every year, we illustrate our commitment to gender equality by 
celebrating International Women’s Day (IWD). In 2018, our IWD 
events united Accenture people, recruits, alumni and more than 
2,500 clients across 250 events in nearly 50 countries to explore 
how digital technology is helping women advance at work and 
close the gender gap. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 42 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT    |     43 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRIDE: Advancing LGBT workplace equality at Accenture and beyond 
For the fourth consecutive year, Accenture hosted a panel at the World Economic Forum 
(WEF) in Davos in January 2018, titled, “Getting to Equal: The Power of LGBT Inclusive 
Cities,” in partnership with Open for Business, a nonprofit coalition that supports the 
economic business case for LGBT inclusion. Among other topics, panelists discussed 
a key piece of research sponsored by Accenture, “Open for Business: Strengthening 
the Economic Case,” which suggests that LGBT-inclusive cities are better positioned to 
develop their global competitiveness due to stronger “innovation ecosystems,” greater 
concentrations of skills and talent, and better quality of life. 
To celebrate Pride Month 2018, we hosted our first-ever Instagram Live chat session, 
“Being Trans at Work.” The program also featured a fireside chat with transgender 
advocate Dr. Vivienne Ming, and posts from our leaders and people on Facebook and 
our Careers portal. We closed out the month with the publication of “Getting to Equal: 
There’s Strength in Pride”—thought leadership on how LGBT employees can thrive 
in a workplace of equality. 
At the same time, we continue to foster partnerships between global and local PRIDE 
networks. Today, more than 40 countries have a local network—all represented by a 
local lead who acts as the driving force behind the program—and we grew our global 
community of LGBT allies to more than 110,000 people. 
Additionally, in fiscal 2018, we extended our voluntary LGBT self-identification program 
to 17 countries, improving our ability to identify gaps in career progression.    
Every year, our people celebrate Pride around the world. Accenture has local 
PRIDE networks in more than 40 countries. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  44 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Persons with disabilities: A focus on enablement and accessibility 
Our emphasis on enablement means we seek to attract, develop and advance people with diferent 
abilities, perspectives and experiences. We prioritize accessibility for all, and over the past two 
years, we increasingly focused on the needs of our persons with disabilities. These eforts include 
public advocacy and the expansion of our internal programs. 
Membership in our Global Persons with Disabilities Champions Network has more than doubled over 
the year—to more than 19,000 around the world. Additionally, our Accessibility Council comprises 
a group of senior leaders, including General Counsel & Chief Compliance Oficer Chad Jerdee and 
Chief Information Oficer Andrew Wilson, who help guide accessibility decision making. 
In 2017, the Council set a new goal: all interactions of our people with Accenture software, devices, 
services and environment should be compliant with globally defined accessibility standards. As 
progress toward that goal, the Council established an internal Accessibility Center of Excellence 
(COE), aiming to ensure that all of Accenture’s internal platforms are fully accessible for our people 
by end of calendar year 2019. Also, through the COE, we are working to improve our vendor-
managed technology by assessing vendor-supplied tools against globally accepted guidelines. 
To achieve these goals, we work with vendors on their accessibility policies and pinpoint any 
necessary improvements to make tools fully accessible for all people. 
Global recognition of International Day of Persons with Disabilities 
This year, under the UN-designated theme of “Empowerment,” Accenture people in more than 
22 countries gathered to celebrate International Day of Persons with Disabilities. In France, our 
people hosted an innovative party concept based on the senses and designed to challenge deeply 
rooted misconceptions regarding disabilities. The ofice also sponsored three mental health 
workshops and a wellness day. In South Africa and Spain, our people hosted Experience-It events, 
providing mobility tools for people to experience first-hand various disabilities and increase their 
understanding and awareness. 
EXPANDED FOCUS ON ACCESSIBILITY 
We are determined to remove environmental, 
technological and external barriers that may limit a 
person’s ability to perform in our workplace. To achieve 
this goal, we champion new solutions to business 
challenges, innovative thinking and opportunities for 
people to reach their full potential. Our 2018 thought 
leadership in this area includes: 
• “Amplify You: How Accessibility Can Bridge 
the Digital Divide” 
• “Amplifying Accenture People” 
• “Getting to Equal: The Disabilities Inclusion Advantage” 
• “The Accessibility Advantage: Why Businesses Should 
Care About Inclusive Design” 
Accenture has experienced an increase in the number 
of our people self-identifying as persons with disabilities. 
Our latest US workforce demographics reveal that in 
2017, 2,300 Accenture people self-identified, representing 
4.5 percent of our US workforce. We continue to 
encourage people with disabilities to voluntarily 
share their status so we can better understand how 
to accommodate needs across the business. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ethnic diversity: Ensuring a workplace where all 
backgrounds are welcome and accepted 
Our people reflect the ethnicities, cultures and diversity of the global 
marketplace. This helps us stand out from the competition and 
drive creative and innovative solutions for our clients, among other 
benefits. Understanding the diversity of opinions, which may be 
influenced by a variety of ethnic and cultural backgrounds, improves 
the way we work together every day. 
We are committed to recruiting, retaining, developing and advancing 
racially and ethnically diverse talent and helping them thrive in 
the workplace. This commitment is critical to helping us foster an 
inclusive workplace where each person’s background and experience 
are welcome. Our inclusiveness helps ensure an environment of 
equal access for all ethnic groups is seamlessly integrated into our 
organizational initiatives and activities. 
For example, in fiscal 2018, we: 
• Launched the Accelerate Professional Development Program in 
the United Kingdom, a year-long program reaching more than 
300 members of the Accenture African Caribbean Network. 
• Held “Super Week” in the United States, where we delivered 
leadership training sessions to nearly 400 participants from 
across our African American, Hispanic American, LGBT 
and Women’s communities. 
• Enabled employees, across all geographies, to participate in 
mentorship programs, either through their employee resource 
group (ERG) or employee networks. These mentoring programs 
include formalized mentoring for all our people, as well as 
development of upwards mentoring for leadership. 
ERG Leadership Summits 
In the United States, the African American ERG and the Hispanic 
American ERG held multiple Leadership Summits. These regionally 
focused, two-day weekend events are designed to support and 
empower our people across the United States. The overall objective 
is to create a platform that allows African American and Hispanic 
American Accenture people to share best practices, develop, support 
and motivate each other for career growth and success. The Summits 
cultivate leadership potential at all levels, facilitate retention and 
growth, and connect ERGs among ofices.  
Networking at our Accelerate Professional Development Program 
in the United Kingdom. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cross-cultural diversity: Building awareness and understanding 
Understanding how to work in a cross-cultural environment is inherent to the unique way we conduct business at Accenture. 
Supported by training, shared best practices and workshops, we provide our people with the tools and learning opportunities 
to work more efectively across borders and to better understand each other and our clients from other cultures. 
One such resource is GlobeSmart, which ofers 24/7 online access to up-to-date information on global business efectiveness. 
Training options include an online course titled “Building Cross-Cultural Awareness,” which focuses on how to maximize value 
with a multicultural team. In addition, we ofer helpful tools for each country where we do business, designed to provide 
at-a-glance tips on regional diversity, including local customs, languages and other important cultural nuances. 
Navigating across cultures 
Many Accenture people participate in cross-location initiatives or work on global teams. We created “Navigating Across 
Cultures” to help our people understand the cultures of other locations. The program comprises a light-hearted interview, 
in which four employees from the same location each share their individual point of view on various topics and answer 
questions from a live audience. This allows the teams to view the cultural patterns of diferent locations, personalized by 
individual points of view. Accenture people from Argentina, China, India and the Philippines participated in the program in 
fiscal 2018, and we plan to expand the program in fiscal 2019. 
Another example of our people-centric approach to cultural learning is our Building Bridges series. Through virtual and 
in-person sessions, we support and encourage our people to engage in honest dialogue about issues that some may find 
uncomfortable. Since its launch in 2016, we have held more than 15 sessions across the United States on important topics not 
often discussed openly at work, such as immigration, race, sexual identity and orientation, faith and being your authentic self. 
Building Bridges also played a role in our 2018 eforts to embrace our diversity through a Day of Understanding, held in 
December at Accenture ofices across the United States. The event was hosted by the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, 
the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion within the workplace. CEO Action for 
Diversity includes more than 550 CEOs of the world’s leading companies and business organizations—and Accenture is 
proud to be on the steering committee. The goal of this initiative is to work together to leverage our voices to advance 
diversity and inclusion in all of our workplaces. 
The most important 
“
thing we can do for each 
other is to listen, to seek 
understanding and to 
reafirm that this is a 
company that doesn’t 
just tolerate and accept 
diversity, but truly 
celebrates it.” 
Accenture Manager 
Cincinnati, United States 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VOLUNTEERING AND EMPLOYEE GIVING 
Making an impact in the communities where we work and live 
Volunteering is one of the many ways our people can fulfill a purpose, 
connect with their communities and make a diference while growing 
their careers. 
In fiscal 2018, our people contributed approximately 854,000 hours 
to company-sponsored corporate citizenship activities during 
work hours, including pro bono consulting projects. Additionally, 
Accenture people gave more than 311,000 hours of their own time 
through Accenture-facilitated volunteer events. These valuable 
contributions add up to more than 1.1 million hours of giving back to 
the communities where we work and live. 
Accenture people have the flexibility and freedom to choose when, 
where and how they give back, contributing their time and skills 
in whatever way works for them. Our dynamic, digital employee 
volunteering platform ofers a variety of volunteering options including 
all our company-sponsored activities as well as our people’s personal 
volunteer passions—broadening the volunteering experience to 
recognize all the ways our people can make a diference. 
Additionally, we ofer simple, on-demand virtual volunteering opportunities, 
which can be completed on a laptop, smartphone or tablet, and often in 
smaller chunks of time. During fiscal 2018, we invested in growing our 
virtual volunteering impact and adding new partners to scale our eforts. 
For example, through our partner Missing Maps, our people volunteered 
their time to help digitally map previously unmarked areas around the world 
to help first responders assist vulnerable people during disaster situations. 
To scale this efort, in fiscal 2018, we began a formal partnership with 
Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team—a founding member of Missing Maps. 
As we look to the future and our desire to grow volunteering, we 
continue to evolve the platform to better serve our people’s interests and 
passions, improve global participation, track involvement and ensure that 
volunteerism is a common theme throughout the employee experience. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 47 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  48 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leaders join national Sleep Out to end homelessness 
Accenture people gave up the warmth and comfort of their own beds for a night on the streets in cities across 
the United States, including Atlanta, Chicago, Miami, New York, Oakland, Philadelphia and Washington, DC. The 
program was part of the national Sleep Out for Covenant House, a Skills to Succeed nonprofit partner. While 
braving the elements, our people learned first-hand about the hardships homeless people face and the daily 
struggle to lift themselves out of poverty. Together, our people raised approximately US$250,000 for Covenant 
House and gained a new perspective and a deeper sense of empathy for those experiencing homelessness. 
“There is no way we can fully comprehend the level of deprivation many people have experienced. However, we 
can learn to treat them as our brothers and sisters, and that all starts with a genuine, caring concern for others— 
and with getting out there in the community and engaging, face-to-face, as a volunteer,” said Nate Boaz, Group 
Operating Oficer – Accenture Strategy.  
Accenture volunteers across 
the United States spent a 
winter night on the streets to 
help end homelessness. 
Music that moves solidarity 
The Accenture Foundation in Spain collaborated with digital music service, Spotify, to create a unique funding 
competition geared toward social impact. Our people developed the 45 projects in the competition, then created 
a playlist on Spotify with the goal of gaining the most subscribers to be the ultimate winner for additional funding 
of €15,000. The winner was “La Azotea Azul,” a project aimed at refurbishing a hospital’s rooftop into an area for 
hospitalized children to play in a fresh air environment. 
ACCENTURE IN 
NEW ZEALAND ACHIEVES 
100 PERCENT VOLUNTEER 
PARTICIPATION OVER TWO 
CONSECUTIVE YEARS 
The New Zealand Corporate 
Citizenship team has strived to 
achieve 100 percent volunteering 
participation in its various locations. 
The New Zealand Corporate 
Citizenship leads credit their two-
year goal achievement by having 
full leadership support, efectively 
co-sponsoring across locations, 
providing volunteers flexibility and 
emphasizing accountability. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  49  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENVIRONMENT 
Accelerating the shift to a low-carbon economy 
A decade into our quest to lessen our environmental impact, thinking—and acting—sustainably is part of 
daily life at Accenture. We are committed to doing our part to protect the planet for future generations and 
to helping those around us pursue their environmental goals. By improving the eficiency of our operations, 
harnessing the innovative spirit of our people and developing new sustainability solutions, we aim to 
accelerate the global shift to a low-carbon economy and to lessen the efects of climate change. 
Having achieved two of our 2020 environmental goals early, Accenture worked with key stakeholders to 
define the next chapter of our environmental journey. In December 2018, we announced our new science-
based target, approved by the Science-Based Targets Initiative, to reduce our absolute greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHG) 11 percent by 2025 against our 2016 baseline. This includes a 65 percent reduction in 
scope 1 and 2 emissions, and a 40 percent per unit of revenue intensity reduction for scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG 
emissions over the same time frame. To date, we are the largest professional services company to make 
this type of commitment. 
To meet our target, we will continue to develop responsible solutions for further sustainable growth and 
intensify our focus on the eficiency of our business operations. This includes reducing our energy use and 
switching to renewable forms of power, as well as addressing travel impact and supply chain sustainability. 
Our environmental strategy focuses on three areas: running eficient operations to reduce emissions and 
other impacts such as waste and water use; engaging our people, leaders, partners and other stakeholders; 
and enabling client sustainability. Reducing our environmental impact is ingrained in our Code of Business 
Ethics (COBE) and our core values, specifically Stewardship. These inform our Environmental Responsibility 
Policy, which our Environment Steering Group established in 2007 and reviews annually. 
SOCIAL INNOVATOR 
Angie Malltezi 
Specialist – Accenture Technology 
Toronto, Canada 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RUNNING EFFICIENT OPERATIONS 
From travel to renewable energy sources—our multifaceted approach 
As a professional services company, our environmental footprint 
consists primarily of the greenhouse gas emissions we generate 
through travel and electricity use in our locations. We continue 
to explore innovative technologies and processes to decouple 
business growth from emissions growth. 
Last year we realized a reduction of approximately 24,000 metric 
tons of CO2 emissions from ofice electricity usage, thanks to 
our ongoing commitment to energy eficiency and increased 
investments in renewable energy. We also continue to address 
travel intensity and realized an approximately 14 percent reduction 
in per-person travel-related CO2 emissions over fiscal 2017. 
We take a multifaceted approach to driving operational eficiency, 
with an emphasis on using new technologies to manage our 
energy consumption, investing in renewable energy sources, 
harnessing analytics to reduce our impact, decreasing the 
intensity of travel, and continually accessing and disclosing 
environmental and climate-related risks. 
Leveraging new technologies for energy 
management: Driving energy eficiency 
We continue to make energy eficiency advances across our real 
estate portfolio, seeing improvements every year since fiscal 2010. 
In fiscal 2018, we achieved a more than 6 percent improvement 
in energy eficiency over the previous year. Since beginning our 
environmental journey in 2007, we have saved more than 1.57 million 
megawatt hours of electricity, more than 857,000 metric tons of CO2 
and generated more than US$207 million in energy savings. 
In fiscal 2018, our team in Turin, Italy, achieved a 60 percent electrical 
load decrease by installing more than 600 fluorescent fittings with 
LED luminaries across their ofice, incorporating daylight sensors 
near windows and internal motion detectors to help manage use. 
They also achieved overall energy consumption savings of more than 
25 percent in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. 
Our Madrid ofice launched a pilot to improve their energy 
eficiency using “Intelligent Climate Platform” software, designed 
and built by Accenture’s Liquid Studio team, to more efectively 
control air conditioning based on variable weather conditions, 
historical data and electricity prices. Preliminary results of the pilot 
show up to 20 percent energy savings. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 50 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing renewable energy sources: Reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions, energy costs and our 
carbon footprint 
Our renewable energy initiative—part of our supply chain sustainability 
strategy—aims to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, energy 
costs and per-person carbon footprint. In fiscal 2018, approximately 
24 percent of our energy came from renewable sources, allowing us to 
avoid more than 67,400 metric tons of CO2 across our global operations. 
We continue to monitor and plan for renewable energy purchasing 
opportunities within our most energy-intensive delivery locations, 
and have developed a renewable energy road map that will bring 
us closer to achieving our 2025 goals of reducing our scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 65 percent against our 2016 baseline. We continue to 
centralize our energy purchases and have placed a greater emphasis 
on the management and tracking of the quality of renewable energy 
purchases. Although we do not own our ofices, where possible, we 
have put standards in place to allow us to purchase our own energy 
from renewable facilities or to influence the landlord to purchase 
renewable power as part of lease negotiations. 
To see our locations currently using renewable energy, visit our 
Environment Impact Map. 
Saving carbon by reducing travel intensity and 
connecting virtually 
Taking full advantage of collaboration technology not only 
lowers costs, it allows our teams to connect virtually, maximizes 
our return on investment and improves work-life balance. 
Last year we avoided 37,000 more metric tons of CO2 from air 
travel as compared to fiscal 2017—approximately a 10 percent 
year-over-year reduction. 
While collaboration technology does help reduce our need for travel, 
it also poses its own challenge: technology upgrades that necessitate 
disposal of obsolete electronic waste (e-waste). We ensure that our 
e-waste is disposed of responsibly, using methods that avoid landfill, 
primarily through supplier reclamation and responsible disposal vendors. 
Using analytics to reduce environmental impact and 
reshape behaviors 
Accenture’s Smart Spending program began as a review of employee 
spending in the United Kingdom and Ireland (UKI). This led to the creation 
of an Accenture data lake that allowed the business to evaluate employee 
expenses more efectively. 
In fiscal 2018, we began transitioning UKI-driven reporting to the global 
CIO’s Enterprise Insights team, which will enable us to make this tool 
available across geographic and business units. We also maintain regular 
communications and technology enhancements to drive continued 
awareness and action to reshape travel behaviors.  
Collaborative technology helps 
reduce the need for travel. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 51 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Promoting energy-eficient transportation: 
Embracing electric and public transport 
In Belgium, France, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, we are 
transitioning diesel and gas cars in our fleet to electric-powered 
vehicles and a more intense use of public transportation. 
We also began a Mobility Awareness Program that provides our 
people a monthly carbon footprint report based on their travel 
habits. It incentivizes green behaviors by allowing them to finance 
a bicycle out of their pre-tax salary and providing an allowance 
for every kilometer traveled by bike for work-related reasons. In 
addition, we began a summer e-bike program, where people can 
try an e-bike commute for one month for free. 
Ongoing eforts to assess and reduce environmental 
impact: Our certifications and commitments 
As reflected in our Environmental Responsibility Policy, Accenture 
holds a range of industry-wide external certifications that 
demonstrate our commitment to being a responsible, sustainable 
business. Accenture is ISO® 14001 Environmental Management 
System-certified globally. ISO® 14001 is an international standard 
for organizations to minimize their environmental impact. It is a 
key credential for many of our clients and tangible evidence of our 
commitment to integrate robust environmental practices into our 
operations. Additionally, our ISO® 14001 certification sites serve as 
incubators for innovations that can be shared with other Accenture 
locations worldwide, such as installing smart meters in our facilities 
and piloting people-focused initiatives like our Travel Smart 
Challenge. To see our ISO®-certified locations and locations 
that use smart metering, visit our Environment Impact Map. 
Assessing and disclosing climate-related 
risk: Accelerating the transition to a 
low-carbon economy 
Accenture supports the recommendations of the industry-led 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), urging 
companies to evaluate and disclose their climate-related financial 
risks. Timely implementation of these recommendations is a crucial 
step toward delivering on the commitments of the Paris Agreement 
and keeping global warming well below 2°C. Enhanced disclosure 
will allow us to better assess the financial impact of climate change 
and to support an orderly transition to a low-carbon economy. 
Every year since 2007, Accenture has reported our environmental 
performance to CDP, including our environmental risks, opportunities 
and methodologies on climate change mitigation and adaptation. 
Beginning in 2017, in accordance with TCFD guidelines, we 
updated our financial filings to include the fiscal impact of these 
and associated risks. These include the increasing frequency and 
severity of adverse weather conditions, which may have an adverse 
efect on our people, facilities and operations. In addition, although 
Accenture is not a water-intensive company, we manage our water 
consumption closely with a special focus on regions afected 
by climate change-driven water scarcity. In areas not afected 
by drought or water shortages, we still monitor our water 
consumption to identify opportunities for eficiency improvement. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 52 
   
 
 
 
 
 
ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE 
Harnessing the ingenuity of our workforce 
Our people are passionate about protecting the planet. In fact, they 
are the driving force behind much of our progress in this space. 
Our Environment, Workplace, IT and Procurement teams bring our 
environmental strategy to life, collaborating with our global network 
of more than 10,500 Eco team members across 70 countries to 
promote eco-volunteering activities, including a mix of virtual and 
in-person events and challenges.  
Our Travel Smart Challenge encourages Accenture people to reduce air 
and automobile travel. 
Greener Than Game and Travel Smart Challenge 
In 2018, Accenture expanded the Greener Than Game, an annual 
eco-initiative encouraging our people and locations around the globe 
to compete for the title of the “Greenest” at Accenture. In total, nearly 
23,000 people participated in the online challenge. Competitors shared 
their eco-knowledge and actions with colleagues on gamified internal 
Accenture platforms to collect points and drive engagement. 
As part of the competition, individuals submitted innovative ideas for 
reducing their carbon footprint. The judges received nearly 2,300 
submissions, ranging from new ways of reducing travel and energy 
consumption to creative strategies for improving waste management. 
The winning entry was a pop-up notification for laptops that alerts users 
when their battery is fully charged, with the potential to track energy 
savings and CO2 emissions. 
The competition also included our seventh annual Travel Smart 
Challenge, a six-week competition where our people creatively minimize 
air and road travel. Between Earth Day in April to World Environment Day 
in June, participants avoided more than 32,000 flights and 4 million 
miles of car trips, avoiding nearly 14,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas 
emissions and saving more than US$22 million in travel costs. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 53 
   
 
 
 
 
 
ENABLING CLIENT SUSTAINABILITY 
Collaborating for greater impact 
Recognizing that no single organization alone can prevent the 
efects of climate change, collaboration is a critical component 
of both our environmental strategy and our client sustainability 
initiatives. In addition to reducing the environmental footprint of our 
own operations, we also help our clients define and achieve their 
sustainability goals through our commercial services and through 
research with external thought leaders.  
Collaboration is key to addressing climate change and creating a 
more sustainable future. 
Client Carbon Savings program: Creating solutions 
to cut carbon together 
Our Client Carbon Savings program brings together our teams 
that ofer commercial services, which help our clients meet their 
economic and sustainability goals, to share ideas and consolidate 
the impact of these emissions-reduction activities. 
In fiscal 2018, through our Energy Management-as-a-Service 
(EMaaS) ofering, we identified potential savings for our clients 
of more than 2.61 million metric tons of CO2 and nearly US$526 
million and implemented strategies to help them save a cumulative 
301,000 metric tons of CO2 and more than US$12.4 million. 
To date, the EMaaS and Zero-based services have led our Client 
Carbon Savings program. We acknowledge our robust service 
oferings—for example those that help clients transition to the 
cloud, also help reduce emissions. However, we are still working 
to identify a consistent and reliable way to measure our impact. 
In fiscal 2019, we will continue to explore new approaches to 
grow this program further. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 54 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Convening partners and clients for climate 
solutions: Modeling responsible stewardship 
Climate action is one of the most pressing issues of our time 
and the shift to a low-carbon economy will require collaboration 
between businesses, governments and nongovernmental 
organizations around the world. We are committed to working 
side by side with our clients and other key stakeholders as 
responsible stewards of the environment. 
Highlights from 2018 include: 
World Economic Forum initiatives: 
• In November 2018, then Chairman & CEO Pierre Nanterme signed 
an open letter from the World Economic Forum’s (WEF’s) Alliance 
of CEO Climate Leaders proclaiming that while climate change 
is a major threat to our environment, societies and economy, 
endangering our well-being and prosperity, achieving a flourishing 
low-carbon world is still possible—if we take action now. 
• Manufacturing, crucial for economic growth and prosperity, 
often consumes high levels of resources and generates large 
amounts of waste. In 2018, Accenture Strategy partnered with 
WEF to publish a new white paper, “Accelerating Sustainable 
Production.” The paper found that an investment in sustainable 
innovation represents a US$5 billion annual opportunity for the 
automotive and electronics industries in Andhra Pradesh, India. 
According to Accenture and WEF leaders, the purpose of the 
white paper is to foster public-private collaboration that can 
accelerate the transformation toward more competitive and 
sustainable production systems. 
XPRIZE: 
Each year, XPRIZE calls on innovators from around the globe to 
design a prize related to a series of pressing challenges in the 
areas of space, oceans, learning, health, energy, environment, 
transportation, safety and robotics. Known as the XPRIZE Grand 
Challenge, the competition aims to bring awareness to major social 
and environmental issues and to create a more sustainable world 
though technological innovation. 
In 2018, an international team from Accenture won the challenge by 
devising a new competition in the Saving the Coral Reefs category, 
which will task participants with identifying a method of planting 
500,000 corals, while solving for the impact of climate change. 
The team is currently working with XPRIZE to secure funding for the 
competition, which ultimately could help address coral reef die-of.  
Team Accenture is X-cited to win the XPRIZE Grand Challenge. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 55 
  
 
 
 
CASE STUDY  
Heineken: Helping reduce CO2 emissions 
Accenture worked with Heineken to help start the groundwork needed to deliver against its ambitious goal 
to reduce global carbon emissions. 
Client challenge 
As one of the top three global brewers, Heineken is committed to reducing its carbon emissions 
everywhere it operates. Heineken’s CEO has joined the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate 
Leaders, and the company has launched “Drop the C,” a transformational program aimed at significantly 
reducing CO2 emissions across all areas of its business—with the goal of growing its share of renewable 
thermal energy and electricity in production to 70 percent by 2030. 
Solution 
In just four months, Accenture helped Heineken develop a unified global carbon-reduction road map to 
achieve its ambition, including specific targets and projects for its 19 operating companies consolidated 
into a single global dashboard. Accenture and Heineken identified that some operating companies were 
already very mature in specific areas of renewable energy and initiated the contact with less mature 
operating companies to increase knowledge exchange within Heineken. Furthermore, Accenture supported 
Heineken with energy sourcing, budgeting and validation of “green” credentials across multiple countries. 
Result 
Heineken now has a clear road map and centralized approach for rolling out renewable energy in 
production, putting the company on track to deliver the targets set out in its Drop the C initiative by 
2030. Accenture will continue to be involved in supporting Heineken toward a lower-carbon future. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 56 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SOCIAL INNOVATOR 
Jaroslav Saxa 
Senior Manager – Accenture Technology 
Bratislava, Slovakia 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Driving cultural change and shaping the future of procurement 
With a multi-billion-dollar supply chain, Accenture has the 
purchasing power to drive positive change on a global scale, 
creating a more economically inclusive world and helping to 
shape the future of procurement. Our ambition is to shift the 
culture of buying both inside and outside Accenture, while 
generating long-term value for our clients, our suppliers 
and our communities. 
Because our supply chains are short, with only a few tiers for 
most of the goods and services we buy, we can work closely 
with our suppliers to promote shared values. Through our 
Procurement Plus approach, we work with both large and 
small suppliers at every stage of the procurement process to 
advance key priorities, such as sustainability, inclusion and 
diversity, human rights and innovation. 
Procurement Plus is more than just a responsible buying 
program; it is the overarching philosophy that informs how 
we approach every aspect of our supply chain, including key 
initiatives such as our award-winning Supplier Inclusion & 
Sustainability Program. Procurement Plus touches each 
of our six main purchasing categories—contractors; HR 
and professional services; IT and telecom; marketing and 
communications; travel and mobility; and workplace and 
facilities. This integrated approach sets us apart from our 
competitors, highlighting our unique business partner focus, 
ventures and acquisitions, risk analysis, and payables and 
investment steps. At the same time, it brings our teams, 
suppliers and clients closer together, helping us shape 
smarter, cost-competitive solutions and reinforcing our 
role as a trusted advisor and partner. 
To learn how our approach is influencing the broader 
marketplace, see the Bristol-Myers Squibb sidebar 
later in this section. 
Evolving our ethical procurement strategy: Setting 
high standards and driving meaningful change 
Our leaders, people, clients and business partners want to 
know that we manage our procurement process responsibly, 
including where and how we create or source our goods 
and services. We set high standards for the way we conduct 
business, and we require suppliers across all procurement 
categories and stages to adhere to Accenture’s Supplier 
Standards of Conduct or to make an equivalent commitment. 
We continue to improve our compliance procedures, 
leveraging our global reach to drive meaningful change 
in areas such as human and labor rights. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 57 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As with our COBE, our Supplier Standards of Conduct reflect our 
core values and our commitment to the 10 Principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Published in 20 languages, these 
Standards outline the labor criteria to which our external suppliers 
must adhere and require compliance with all applicable laws and 
regulations. We continue to evolve our global Supplier Standards of 
Conduct in line with our approach to continuous improvement. This 
is particularly important as part of our eforts to encourage payment 
of living wages and eliminate modern slavery and human traficking 
within our supply chains. 
In fiscal 2018, as part of these ongoing updates to our Standards, we: 
• Clarified our expectations of our suppliers around modern slavery
or involuntary labor, including comprehensive provisions around
contractual notice periods and the appropriate recovery of
training costs.
• Added new language explicitly prohibiting Accenture suppliers
from withholding employees’ identity or immigration documents
or allowing workers to be charged recruiting fees.
• Clarified our prohibition around child labor, particularly that
Accenture suppliers must not employ individuals whose age
qualifies them for compulsory education. We do not prohibit
our suppliers from ofering workplace apprenticeships, work
experience or internship programs, provided that these
programs comply with applicable laws.
• Included a new provision that strongly encourages all suppliers
whose people directly provide services to Accenture and/or its
clients to commit to paying all such people a living wage that
is higher than the legal minimum wage requirement and that
factors in relevant actual living costs.
Since 2017, Accenture has published a Modern Slavery Act 
Transparency Statement for our UK business, and we continue 
to update the statement annually. We actively engage with the 
UNGC UK Network’s Modern Slavery Working Group. 
We also continue to look for opportunities to work with our key 
partners and suppliers in this important area. For instance, this 
past year, we also worked with global leadership at Jones Lang 
LaSalle, a major supplier of facilities management services to 
Accenture in India and the Philippines, to better understand 
our exposure and the protections they have in place to prevent 
modern slavery and human traficking in their operations. 
We are also active participants in the UNGC’s Decent Work in 
Supply Chains Action Plan Program and have recently signed 
the Decent Work in Global Supply Chains Commitment to Action 
to advance the Sustainable Development Goals—adhering 
to the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work and the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights. Accenture contributed to the Decent 
Work initiative’s 2018 report, which explores challenges and 
opportunities companies face in their eforts to develop more 
sustainable and ethical procurement strategies. 
As part of our wider commitment in this area, Accenture is driving 
the adoption of a living wage with our supplier community. 
Through our revised Standards, we now strongly encourage all 
our suppliers to pay a living wage to their people who directly 
provide services to Accenture and/or our clients. In 2018, we 
reviewed more than 36,000 of our managed contractors across 
10 countries, finding discrepancies in fewer than 2 percent of 
cases; these have since been remediated. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 58 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  59 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving supplier sustainability: Advancing environmental performance 
We are committed to advancing sustainable procurement practices both within and outside 
Accenture. To that end, we expect our suppliers to provide updates around their environmental 
initiatives, goals and impact, and we encourage local and regional teams to discuss sustainable 
procurement during their regular supplier meetings. By educating our suppliers on the benefits 
of sustainability, we are increasing the number that monitor, measure and communicate their 
environmental impact. 
As a corporate member of CDP’s Supply Chain program, we use CDP tools to promote 
engagement, transparency and sustainable business practices with our suppliers. Since 2010, 
we have invited a select group of suppliers to respond to CDP’s Supply Chain self-assessment 
questionnaire each year. Gathering information in a standardized way helps us gain a better 
understanding of each supplier’s environmental practices. It also supports Accenture’s 2020 goal 
to measure and report the impact of our sustainability initiatives with clients and suppliers, and 
formalizes our eforts to advance supplier emissions disclosure. 
Over the years, Accenture has significantly increased the number of suppliers we ask to participate 
in CDP’s reporting program. Generally, our suppliers have been more engaged than the average 
of other companies’ suppliers—in 2018, 81 percent of our suppliers participated, well above CDP’s 
global average of 68 percent. 
We also made progress toward our 2020 goal of having 75 percent of our key suppliers disclosing 
their carbon-reduction targets and reporting on the actions they are taking to reduce emissions. 
In 2018, more than 74 percent of our suppliers disclosed their targets, and more than 80 percent 
disclosed the actions and initiatives they are taking toward emissions reduction. Of the more than 
5,000 companies that participated in CDP’s supply chain program in 2018, Accenture earned a 
Supplier Engagement Rating of “A” and was among the 3 percent that earned a spot—for the second 
consecutive year—on the Supplier Engagement Leader Board—an honor reserved for companies that 
are engaging with their suppliers to manage carbon emissions and address climate-related issues 
across their supply chains. More information is available in CDP’s Global Supply Chain Report 2019, 
“Cascading commitments: Driving upstream action through supply chain engagement.” 
IMPLEMENTING SUPPLIER DIVERSITY TO CREATE 
CULTURAL CHANGE 
Our award-winning Supplier Inclusion & Sustainability Program has 
garnered great interest from our clients and other stakeholders. In 
fiscal 2018, we mobilized a Diversity Day for Barilla, an international 
foods company, complete with unconscious bias, guest speakers 
and first-hand insights from members of our Procurement Plus 
team. Our Barilla clients were impressed and subsequently 
asked for help creating a journey of what good looks like when 
implementing supplier diversity. As part of this process, we helped 
the company start mapping its supplier landscape and develop 
strategies that will enable a more diverse procurement pipeline. 
“
Barilla aspires to be a market leader in supplier 
diversity and inclusion. The Accenture team helped 
us reimagine our approach and identify new ways to 
connect and work with diverse suppliers, for example, 
women-owned suppliers, LGBT, social enterprises 
and so on. Our hope is that this new approach, which 
started with a Procurement training day, will further 
drive cultural change within our company, and also 
help us collaborate with our suppliers and peers.” 
Luigi Ganazzoli 
Purchasing Vice President – Barilla 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT    |     60 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advancing supplier inclusion and diversity: Creating value, championing 
change and empowering communities 
We believe inclusive procurement practices create long-term value for our clients and our 
communities, while helping us remain agile, disruptive and ahead of the market. 
Our Supplier Inclusion & Sustainability Program, which reaches 18 countries, allows us to drive 
a more-inclusive and empowered marketplace. By incorporating diverse businesses into our 
supply chain, we gain access to innovative, responsive and cost-competitive supply solutions 
for our clients. This is particularly true of our professional services suppliers and contractors, 
who make up the majority of our procurement spend. At the same time, we help Accenture’s 
suppliers grow their representation and influence in their own markets. 
Although inclusive procurement is a global priority for Accenture, we monitor our diverse spend 
most consistently within the United States. In fiscal 2018, our total US procurement spend with 
diverse suppliers (minority-, women-, small- and medium-sized, service-disabled veterans, 
veteran, historically underutilized and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) enterprises) 
exceeded 30 percent. 
In South Africa, we are committed to leading the way with supplier inclusion, aiming to go above 
and beyond requirements in the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) Act. In fiscal 
2018, Accenture received the highest-level ranking, level one, up from level two the previous year. 
In 2018, our procurement spend with black-women-owned enterprises in South Africa reached 
36 percent against the B-BBEE target of 12 percent, while our spend with small- and medium-sized 
enterprises grew to 39 percent against a target of 30 percent. Our procurement spend in South 
Africa with black-owned vendors was 36 percent, slightly below the target of 40 percent due in 
part to significantly tightened definition of empowered suppliers and because some of our 
suppliers moved to a higher revenue category. 
LEADING THE WAY: TOP AWARDS 
AND RECOGNITIONS 
• In fiscal 2018, DiversityInc recognized our eforts by ranking 
Accenture No. 1 on its Top Companies for Supplier Diversity 
list, marking our seventh consecutive year on the list and our 
first in this spot. 
• Accenture was recognized by the National Business Inclusion 
Consortium, led by the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce, 
as one of the 2018 Best-of-the-Best Corporations for cross-
segment diversity and inclusion eforts. 
• Kai Nowosel, Accenture’s Chief Procurement Oficer, was 
named the 2018 Chief Procurement Oficer of the Year by the 
United States Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce 
Southeast Region. 
• Accenture received a perfect score—100 percent—on 
Disability:IN’s Disability Employment Index for the second 
consecutive year. 
• Accenture was recognized among America’s Top Corporations 
for Women’s Business Enterprises by Women’s Business 
Enterprise National Council (WBENC). 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  61 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Diverse Supplier Development Program: Expanding 
relationships and opportunities 
Accenture’s Diverse Supplier Development Program (DSDP) reflects our 
commitment to developing and expanding relationships with businesses 
owned by ethnic minorities, women, persons with disabilities, members 
of the LGBT community, veterans and other diverse entrepreneurs. The 
12- to 18-month program matches senior Accenture executive mentors 
with diverse supplier “protégé” companies to help them grow their 
businesses. We are paying particular attention to vendors that have AI 
and other innovative skills that we would consider in the New. 
As of fiscal 2018, 144 diverse suppliers had graduated—23 in Canada, 13 in 
South Africa, 22 in the United Kingdom and Ireland, and 86 in the United 
States. Our goal is to graduate 170 diverse suppliers by fiscal 2020, and we 
have plans to graduate multiple classes in Canada, South Africa, the United 
Kingdom and Ireland, and the United States in fiscal 2019. 
We are also strategically expanding DSDP to focus on geographies that are 
key to enabling our business and those of our clients. We plan to expand 
into India and Latin America in 2019. 
WATCH A VIDEO 
We support—through our Procurement leaders serving on Boards and in 
other capacities—various diversity groups around the world, including 
Canadian Aboriginal & Minority Supplier Council, Disability:IN, Global 
Supplier Diversity Alliance, Greater Women’s Business Council, Minority 
Supplier Development UK (MSDUK), National Minority Development Council 
in the United States, National Council, WEConnect International, Women 
Business Enterprise Supply Nation and others. 
For example, Accenture is helping MSDUK, a leading nonprofit membership 
organization in the United Kingdom aimed at advancing supplier diversity, 
to develop a procurement ecosystem that nurtures diverse suppliers from 
the ground up, creating shared value for our businesses. 
WATCH A VIDEO 
0
 170 
144 
Small, medium and 
diverse suppliers 
developed toward 
our goal 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  62 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting an inclusive labor market: Finding new ways to 
empower people 
Accenture is proud to be a corporate leader in inclusive procurement practices, 
and we continue to explore new ways and opportunities to promote the inclusion 
of persons who may be excluded from the labor market for physical, social or 
cultural reasons. This includes minority-, ethnic- and women-owned businesses 
and persons with disabilities, visible or otherwise; veterans; refugees; people living 
away from economic centers; and LGBT persons. We support these groups not 
only through direct recruitment, but also through agreements with our facilities’ 
vendors and in collaboration with for-profit and nonprofit organizations. 
One challenge we face is identifying women-owned businesses that have—or want 
to develop—the capacity to meet our procurement standards. To help address 
this issue, we connect women entrepreneurs with WEConnect International, 
which empowers women to succeed in global markets by providing training and 
certification opportunities. We co-founded and have representation on the Board of 
WEConnect International, and Accenture now collaborates with the organization 
in 16 countries across Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe and Latin America. WEConnect 
International programs aim to level the procurement field and integrate more 
women-owned enterprises into the supply chain. 
In 2018, we co-sponsored the launch of WEConnect International in Japan, which 
included an inaugural conference at which Satsuki Katayama, Minister of State 
for Gender Equality, Minister in Charge of Women’s Empowerment and Minister in 
Charge of Regional Revitalization voiced Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s commitment 
to ensure that corporations work with women-owned businesses.  
Accenture’s Procurement Plus team members pose with clients at the launch 
of WEConnect International in Japan. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  63 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In 2017, Accenture joined WEConnect and several 
other global companies and pledged to spend 
US$100 million globally with women-owned 
businesses over three years, including $50 million 
of this spend in developing countries. At the 2018 
Global Citizen Festival in Johannesburg, Accenture 
made an additional commitment to emphasize 
procurement spend on women-owned businesses 
in South Africa. 
BUILDING A 21ST-CENTURY WORKFORCE 
To develop transformational medicines and help patients around the world overcome serious diseases, Bristol-Myers Squibb 
(BMS) understands the need to develop a powerfully diverse, broadly inclusive 21st-century workforce. To support this goal, 
Accenture is working with the Diferently Abled Workplace Network People and Business Resource Group (DAWN-PBRG) at 
BMS to foster an inclusive work environment where employees with disabilities are valued and respected equally with others. 
In 2018, Accenture collaborated with Rondu Vincent from BMS Global Procurement, Mike DiNovi from BMS IT, and Rangam 
Consultants, Inc., a minority and women-owned and disability-owned supplier and DSDP graduate, to onboard three team 
members on the autism spectrum to our New Jersey-based BMS team utilizing Rangam’s SourceAbled program. We then 
conducted autism awareness training and created position profiles, new hire checklists and other materials to meet our 
diferently abled team members’ needs and bring them into a safe and supportive environment.  
The impactful work we are doing for disability and 
“ 
inclusion could not be realized without strong partners 
who share similar goals, and I want to formally 
acknowledge our partner Accenture and Rangam’s 
SourceAbled Program for making this possible.” 
Rondu Vincent 
BMS Global Supplier Diversity Lead 
Members of Accenture, BMS and 
Rangam teams work together to 
build a 21st-century workforce. 
  
 
 
 
CASE STUDY  
DHL: Fighting counterfeit pharmaceutical goods with blockchain 
Accenture helped logistics company DHL to improve the safety and security of supply chains. 
Client challenge 
According to Interpol, as many as 1 million lives are lost each year due to counterfeit medications. 
Additionally, an estimated 30 percent of pharmaceutical products sold in emerging markets are 
counterfeit. DHL believed blockchain technology could ensure product integrity and profoundly 
improve safety standards by enhancing transparency and traceability in supply chains, with the goal 
of ultimately saving lives. 
Solution 
DHL partnered with Accenture to develop a proof-of-concept using blockchain to track and trace 
pharmaceutical products from manufacturing to delivery to patients. The solution integrates all 
parties across DHL’s logistics supply chain, including manufacturers, pharmacies and end consumers. 
Every party records each step on the blockchain, and at the point of purchase, the end consumer can 
independently validate that their medication is legitimate and safe to consume. 
Result 
The project illustrated blockchain’s ability to capture all logistics activities relating to medication—from 
production to purchase—and ensure information security, transparency and immediate availability. The 
project successfully demonstrated blockchain’s use in the fight against counterfeit pharmaceutical goods 
by simulating processing of more than 7 billion unique pharmaceutical serial numbers and more than 
1,500 transactions per second. 
WATCH A VIDEO 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 64 
 
 
 
 
ETHICS & GOVERNANCE 
Conducting business responsibly 
We are on a journey with our clients to navigate an exciting but uncertain digital future. 
Long-standing business models are being challenged, and trust—among consumers, 
employees and citizens—is eroding. Ethics can determine a company’s future and are 
essential to conducting business responsibly. 
A commitment to ethics, human rights and strong corporate governance are key 
elements of Accenture’s business strategy and are essential for growth, market 
diferentiation and safeguarding our people, clients, brand and financial performance. 
It is the foundation on which we build trust. 
This trust is evident in our enduring relationships with our clients. Our business is rooted in 
long-term associations—97 of our top 100 clients have been with us for a decade or more. 
Across our business and operations, we demonstrate our commitment to behaving 
ethically as a supporter of labor and human rights. We also uphold this commitment as a 
LEAD member of the United Nations Global Compact (which we signed in January 2008) 
and by adhering to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
Through our eforts, we continue to shape our organization as a responsible business 
while maintaining a highly ethical culture. In fact, our Ethics & Compliance program has 
helped earn Accenture a spot on Ethisphere’s 2019 World’s Most Ethical Companies list. 
We are proud that this is our 12th consecutive year on the list, recognizing our unwavering 
dedication to ethical leadership, compliance practices and corporate citizenship. 
SOCIAL INNOVATOR 
Glory Dela Paz 
Team Lead – Accenture Technology 
Manila, Philippines 
   
 
 
 
Creating an ethical culture: Leading with integrity 
In today’s evolving business, legal and regulatory landscape, making 
good decisions requires careful and deliberate consideration of a 
host of complex factors, including the extended consequences of 
a proposed action. That is why it is vital to have both a well-defined 
Code of Business Ethics (COBE) and a straightforward way to help 
our nearly half million people access the information they need to 
make ethical decisions. As we foster an ethical culture, in addition 
to identifying evolving legal requirements and assessing emergent 
risks, our ongoing challenge is to help ensure that all our people 
consistently model appropriate behaviors. 
So that our people can better understand and fully engage with 
our COBE, Accenture ofers a wide range of resources, including 
annual required Ethics & Compliance trainings, an ethics helpline 
and an on-demand chatbot. In fiscal 2018, we upgraded our 
COBE chatbot platform by adding new analytics, AI and machine 
learning capabilities to improve language processing and ongoing 
knowledge acquisition. These capabilities help surface real-time 
trends that allow us to tailor responses and identify new topics and 
training opportunities, while still preserving user anonymity. 
We continue to evolve our required COBE training with short, 
visually engaging, interactive and frequent courses. Individuals 
must complete all required Ethics & Compliance training by July 31 
each year to be fully eligible for year-end rewards (as permitted 
by law). In fiscal 2018, we achieved completion rates of more than 
98 percent across all our employees. We also achieved higher 
satisfaction rates than in the past; our people said they like the 
shorter, more frequent “snackable” courses—including new Human 
Rights and Corporate Citizenship training—that presented relevant 
examples and scenarios in an upbeat, positive way. 
We encourage our people to speak up about disrespectful, 
inappropriate, unethical or illegal behavior of any kind, and we have 
zero tolerance for retaliation against anyone who speaks up in good 
faith. Accenture takes all concerns raised—whether to a supervisor, 
career counselor, an Accenture Leader, or Human Resources or 
Legal representative—seriously. Concerns also may be reported 
anonymously, where legal restrictions allow, to the Accenture 
Business Ethics Helpline 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  
Our COBE chatbot helps our people make ethical decisions. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  66 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct Counts: Guiding our people’s behavior 
The first fundamental behavior featured in COBE is “Make Your 
Conduct Count,” which articulates five locally relevant yet globally 
applicable standards to guide our people’s behavior across our unique 
and diverse “culture of cultures.” This framework creates a foundation 
for a respectful, inclusive and ethical environment that helps us inspire 
top talent, while protecting our people and our brand. 
We believe these ethical behaviors are critical to the success of our 
business, and we monitor the ethical environment at Accenture 
by periodically administering anonymous surveys. In early fiscal 
2019, we conducted a global survey, which showed more than 90 
percent awareness of our five global behavioral standards. We plan 
to implement the survey globally at least every two years, driving 
ongoing improvements to our program. 
We believe local actions create global impact. We are pleased to see 
continued adoption of Conduct Counts across our geographies, with 
local leaders embracing the program, encouraging improvement of 
our professional environment, and visibly modeling good behavior 
and setting the “tone from the top.” Our Country Managing Director 
Advisory Council, comprising leadership representation from across 
the globe, participates in quarterly Conduct Counts calls to provide 
perspective, ofer guidance on local needs, create geographic synergy 
and serve as a sounding board for priorities and new initiatives. The 
result is that our people are more willing to share their experiences 
and more likely to see their situation improve when they speak up. 
Human rights: Supporting and respecting the 
rights of all people 
Accenture’s core values, including our commitment to doing 
business ethically, legally and with integrity, are the foundation 
of our company’s culture. 
Our long-standing commitment to internationally recognized 
human rights touches every aspect of our business and requires 
the full participation and support of our leaders, people and 
suppliers. As stated in our COBE, we focus our eforts on 
areas most relevant to our business and operations in terms of 
potential human rights impact: diversity and equal opportunity; 
employment conditions and working practices, including the 
elimination of human traficking, slavery, servitude and forced or 
compulsive labor; abolishing child labor; maintaining a respectful 
environment for our people (through COBE and Conduct Counts) 
and respecting the rights of our people; health, safety and 
security; supply chain; data privacy and anticorruption. 
Our clients and other stakeholders look to us for transparency 
regarding our human rights commitments and policies. Some 
of our key global policies are publicly available to show how we 
drive salient human rights within our organization. These include: 
Raising Legal and Ethical Concerns and Prohibiting Retaliation 
and Prohibiting Human Traficking, Forced Labor and Child Labor. 
Accenture also adheres to relevant international instruments and 
documents, including the International Labour Organization’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the 
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 67 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We continue to review our human rights eforts across our 
operations, as well as best practices in the marketplace, to 
understand how we can further strengthen our commitment. 
If it is unclear how to apply the law consistent with our human 
rights principles, we use good judgment consistent with our 
core values and COBE to support and respect the principles of 
internationally recognized human rights. 
Digital responsibility: Building trust in the digital age 
The ability to continually build trust in long-standing business models, 
which has been diminished in part due to continual technology 
change, is critical for organizations, individuals and societies to 
innovate safely and grow confidently in the digital economy. 
At Accenture, we recognize that safeguarding the data of our 
clients, our company and our people is one of our most important 
responsibilities. We are continually evolving our approach to 
information security and data protection, identifying new threats 
and driving appropriate behavior to reduce the likelihood and 
impact of attacks. Everyone at Accenture has a responsibility to 
demonstrate efective data management practices in accordance 
with our company policies, including our Data Privacy Statement 
and procedures. 
In addition to complying with globally recognized privacy principles, 
best practices including ISO® 27001:2013 certification from the 
British Standards Institution (BSI) and regulations including the 
European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), we 
also continue to lead the way by expanding our focus beyond legal 
compliance to broader management accountability and data ethics. 
Internal initiatives, including our Client Data Protection program, which 
dictates how we protect our clients’ sensitive information and comply 
with regulatory requirements, help us optimize our risk resilience. BSI 
has recognized our work in this area, rating us as a “Role Model” (the 
highest rating) for all National Institute of Standards/U.S. Department of 
Commerce Cyber Security Framework categories. Further, Accenture 
adheres to GDPR, designed to modernize and unify data privacy laws 
across the European Union—protecting and strengthening individuals’ 
rights. Accenture applies GDPR as our worldwide data privacy standard. 
In addition to deploying internal technologies, controls and practices 
that protect Accenture, our people and our clients, we work with 
Accenture Security to deliver comprehensive security solutions spanning 
strategy development, risk management, cyber defense, digital identity, 
application security and managed security services to our clients.  
At The Dock in Dublin, our team researches how Pepper, a humanoid robot, can use AI 
to improve the future of health care. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 68 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  69 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our commitment to digital responsibility also means ensuring that we 
adopt—and help our clients adopt—new technologies, including AI, in an 
ethical manner. AI—systems that act by sensing, interpreting data, reasoning 
and deciding the best course of action—is transforming the relationship 
between people and technology, and creating innumerable benefits for 
society. However, the rapid advancement of this technology is also raising 
ethical challenges. To protect employees, clients and society, companies 
need to establish tools and guidelines to ensure that their AI systems are 
safe, transparent and verifiable. For instance, Accenture’s COBE includes 
parameters around the use of AI. 
When AI is designed within an ethical framework, prioritizing both human 
and machine, it accelerates the potential for responsible collaborative 
intelligence, where human ingenuity converges with intelligent technology. 
This creates a foundation for trust with consumers, the workforce and 
society and drives massive boosts in business performance that will unlock 
incredible new sources of growth. 
At Accenture, we define Responsible AI as the practice of using AI, with 
good intention, to empower employees and businesses and to fairly impact 
customers and society, allowing companies to engender trust and scale 
AI with confidence. To help guide our AI-related initiatives across our own 
operations and with clients, Accenture has established an AI-specific code of 
ethics and business values built around the acronym T.R.U.S.T. in AI: 
• Trustworthy AI that is safe, honest and diverse in perspectives, thereby 
earning the trust of employees, customers and society. 
• Reliable AI that enables enhanced judgment and makes better decisions 
based on a diverse set of key values incorporated in a client’s algorithms. 
• Understandable AI that allows for transparency and interpretability in 
decision making. 
• Secure AI that maintains the privacy and security of company and 
customer information and data. 
• Teachable AI with a human-centric design, aiming for humans and 
machines to co-create, inform and educate one another. 
We have also developed a set of operational, technical, organizational and 
reputational Responsible AI Requirements that serve as the blueprint for 
companies looking to embrace a Responsible AI operating model. Based on 
each company’s customized principles and requirements, Accenture ofers 
suites of tools to fast-track organizational adoption across all functions 
of the business. 
WATCH A VIDEO 
USING AI TO ELIMINATE BIAS 
AI touches so many aspects of our lives, and the decisions it makes has created real-world 
consequences. To help businesses feel confident that they are deploying AI responsibly, 
Accenture is creating a revolutionary “Fairness Tool” that will remove unacknowledged 
biases in algorithms or datasets that could lead to unethical decision making. The goal is 
to identify and address ethical problems before they have the chance to inflict any harm 
on individuals or companies. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The importance of anticorruption programs: Acting 
with honesty and integrity 
Accenture is committed to conducting business ethically. Our COBE 
and related anticorruption policies, both part of our global Ethics & 
Compliance program and human rights eforts, require our people, 
business partners and suppliers to comply with the anticorruption 
laws everywhere we do business, including: 
• The US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). 
• The Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development 
Convention on Combating Bribery of Public Oficials in 
International Business Transactions. 
• The United Nations Convention Against Corruption. 
• The UK Bribery Act. 
We are a member of the World Economic Forum (WEF) Partnering 
Against Corruption Initiative, which unites companies through 
a zero-tolerance policy toward bribery and corruption in any 
form. This policy applies to all Accenture people working for any 
Accenture entity in any country, and to the many ways we develop, 
implement and maintain our broad-based anticorruption program. 
We continually assess and refine our Ethics & Compliance program, 
including how we train our people. Our innovative approach provides 
a baseline of training to all Accenture people, with additional training 
for individuals in higher-risk roles, including in-person training with 
local members of the Legal team in high-risk markets. As part of our 
Ethics & Compliance training, new anticorruption courses are shorter 
and leverage multimedia content and other enhancements to make 
them more engaging. 
In fiscal 2018, we built an innovative “compliance hub” that 
centralizes Accenture’s compliance-related applications onto one 
platform to provide eficiency gains, improve cross-compliance 
collaboration, enhance analytics and deliver additional reporting 
capabilities. The platform includes an anticorruption portal to 
obtain approval before providing gifts, meals or entertainment to 
public oficials, as well as an export compliance tracking tool. In 
fiscal 2019, we will add additional anticorruption tools, including the 
Government Compliance Hub to streamline tracking Accenture’s 
engagements with government clients. Additional compliance-
related applications will be added over time, including adding the 
Business Intermediary Portal to onboard certain third parties. 
In the past year, we again worked with outside counsel—including 
the former head of the U.S. Department of Justice’s Foreign Corrupt 
Policies Act division—to conduct a health check to assess the risk 
of our anticorruption program. The assessment confirmed that 
Accenture’s compliance program continues to be among the most-
advanced and forward-thinking programs in the world. 
Corporate governance: Adhering to best practices 
and policies 
Accenture’s corporate governance matters are described in our 
Proxy Statement, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) on December 7, 2018 (as updated by our 
Proxy Statement supplement, filed with the SEC on January 15, 
2019), as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines. These 
documents outline the role of our Board and its committees and key 
governance practices, as well as the experience, qualifications and 
attributes of our directors. 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 70 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are especially proud of the mix of skills, experience, diversity 
and perspective our Board of Directors bring to Accenture, as 
detailed in our Proxy Statement. 
We maintain an ongoing, proactive outreach efort with our 
shareholders. Throughout the year, our Investor Relations team and 
leaders of our business engage with our shareholders to seek their 
input, to remain well informed regarding their perspectives and to 
help increase their understanding of our business. Through this 
engagement, we leverage the discussions to cover topics of interest 
to our shareholders, including our strategy, compensation, Board 
and other governance topics. 
In a combined efort by our Investor Relations, Corporate Citizenship 
and Legal teams, we reached out to our top 50 shareholders in 
August through October 2018 to discuss our commitment to 
corporate citizenship and environmental-, social- and governance-
related matters. We engaged with holders of more than 40 percent of 
our shares outstanding, including 70 percent of our top 20 holders. 
These engagement activities produce valuable feedback that is 
communicated to and considered by the Board and that informs our 
decisions and strategy, as appropriate. 
Corporate Citizenship leadership and governance: 
Fostering accountability and responsibility 
Accountability to advance corporate citizenship at Accenture starts 
at the top, with our Board, which includes our CEO, and cascades 
through our business, including use of performance objectives 
relating to corporate citizenship. 
We have a clear governance structure to drive performance toward our 
goals and help ensure objectives are cascaded through the organization. 
Specific members of our Global Management Committee are responsible 
for key corporate citizenship and environmental strategies, including 
sponsorship of our non-financial goals. 
These leaders are supported by management groups such as our 
Corporate Citizenship Council and the Environment Steering Group, 
which make strategic recommendations on our sustainability initiatives 
for our leadership to approve and integrate throughout the organization. 
In fiscal 2019, Laurence Morvan, chief of staf – Ofice of the CEO, was 
named corporate social responsibility (CSR) oficer at Accenture. She is 
a member of the company’s Global Management Committee and as CSR 
Oficer has senior accountability for Accenture’s corporate citizenship 
initiatives. She also serves as the executive sponsor for Accenture’s 
relationship with the B20 and the G20 Young Entrepreneur Alliance (G20 
YEA), international forums that bring thought leadership and business 
policy recommendations to the G20 heads of state, with a focus on 
digital economy, entrepreneurship and innovation ecosystems. 
When businesses serve their clients, people and society 
with purpose and a commitment to responsible innovation, 
“ 
there is a benefit to all: trust.” 
Laurence Morvan 
Chief of Staf – Ofice of the CEO & Corporate Social Responsibility Oficer 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 71 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  |  72 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
A LOOK AHEAD 
In fiscal 2019, we are continuing to make progress 
toward our goals and address our challenges by: 
EXPLORING 
new ways to institutionalize how we address emerging topics and new 
questions related to responsible business practices at the most senior 
levels of our organization. 
EXPANDING 
capabilities to anticipate new areas of skill demand and more quickly 
match employees with new career opportunities. 
PURSUING 
creative tactics to reduce our carbon emissions through increased use 
of renewable energy and greater supplier engagement to help us shrink 
emissions from travel and other purchased good and services. 
EXTENDING 
our Diverse Supplier Development Program into parts of India and Latin 
America by fiscal 2020. 
PERFORMANCE 
DATA TABLE 
   
 
 
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE 
The following table quantifies our progress since fiscal 2016 on key non-financial indicators. 
Unless specified, all metrics are global in scope, reported on a fiscal year basis, consistent with 
previously reported figures and cover those of our consolidated entities. All data are consolidated 
from performance management systems across multiple Accenture teams and vetted through an 
internal controls process, which includes senior leadership, to ensure they provide an accurate 
representation of Accenture’s non-financial performance. 
ACCENTURE AT A GLANCE1 
FY16 
FY17 
FY18 
US $ THOUSANDS 
Net Revenues2 
$32,882,723 
$34,850,182 
$39,573,450 
Operating Expenses Excluding Reimbursable Expenses 
28,072,278 
30,217,573 
33,732,409 
Operating Income 
$4,810,445 
$4,632,609 
$5,841,041 
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 74 
   
 
INNOVATING FOR SOCIETY1 
FY16 
FY17 
FY18 
People Equipped with Skills to Get a Job or Build a Business (cumulative, rounded) 
1,720,000 
2,230,000 
2,845,000 
ACCENTURE CONTRIBUTIONS BY REGION 
US $ THOUSANDS 
North America 
$12,394 
$12,484 
$15,979 
Europe 
17,439 
18,619 
20,189 
Growth Markets 
14,903 
16,080 
17,026 
Cross-Region 
14,733 
14,436 
20,512 
Total Accenture Contributions 
$59,468 
$61,619 
$73,706 
ACCENTURE CONTRIBUTIONS BY TYPE 
US $ THOUSANDS 
Cash 
$19,081 
$19,638 
$22,289 
In-Kind (Accenture Development Partnerships and Pro Bono Consulting) 
37,129 
38,408 
47,530 
Time (Paid Volunteering) 
3,258 
3,573 
3,886 
Total Accenture Contributions 
$59,468 
$61,619 
$73,706 
Accenture Foundations Contributions3 
$9,591 
$12,521 
$13,884 
Total Accenture and Accenture Foundations Contributions 
$69,060 
$74,140 
$87,589 
Hours of Participation in Accenture-Sponsored “Time & Skills” Programs4 
700,502 
726,303 
853,901 
Employees Participating in Accenture-Sponsored “Time & Skills” Programs4 
6,422 
7,349 
8,465 
Employee Donations (US $ thousands) 
$9,110 
$8,804 
$9,735 
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 75 
   
 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS: OUR PEOPLE 
FY16 
FY17 
FY18 
Global Headcount at Fiscal Year End (rounded) 
384,000 
425,000 
459,000 
EMPLOYEE WORKFORCE PERCENTAGE BY GENDER5 
PERCENT OF TOTAL 
Women 
39% 
41% 
42% 
Men 
61% 
59% 
58% 
Total 
100% 
100% 
100% 
NEW HIRES PERCENTAGE BY GENDER5 
PERCENT OF TOTAL 
Women 
44% 
45% 
47% 
Men 
56% 
55% 
53% 
Total 
100% 
100% 
100% 
EXECUTIVES PERCENTAGE BY GENDER5,6 
PERCENT OF TOTAL 
Women 
28% 
29% 
29% 
Men 
72% 
71% 
71% 
Total 
100% 
100% 
100% 
MANAGING DIRECTORS PERCENTAGE BY GENDER5,7 
PERCENT OF TOTAL 
Women 
20% 
21% 
22% 
Men 
80% 
79% 
78% 
Total 
100% 
100% 
100% 
Total Training Spend (US $ thousands) 
$940,509 
$935,200 
$927,484 
Average Training Hours per Employee 
46 
45 
42 
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 76 
   
 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS: ENVIRONMENT1 
FY16 
FY17 
FY18 
Percentage Change in Total Carbon Emissions Compared to FY16 Baseline 
-1% 
-5% 
)8
Core Carbon Emissions per Employee (Metric Tons of CO2
2.13 
1.96 
1.66 
CORE CARBON EMISSIONS BY SOURCE8,9 
METRIC TONS OF CO2 
Air Travel 
373,316 
389,098 
351,966 
Other Business Travel 
157,701 
157,471 
164,533 
Ofice Electricity10 
259,540 
240,008 
216,051 
Other Energy (Natural Gas, Diesel) 
6,537 
4,436 
3,416 
Total Core Carbon Emissions 
797,094 
791,013 
735,966 
CORE CARBON EMISSIONS BY REGION8,9 
METRIC TONS OF CO2 
North America 
230,897 
234,746 
223,720 
Europe10 
144,307 
147,815 
133,138 
Growth Markets 
421,890 
408,451 
379,108 
Total Core Carbon Emissions 
797,094 
791,013 
735,966 
Carbon Emissions from Other Purchased Goods and Services8 
460,542 
451,031 
453,828 
Total Carbon Emissions 
1,257,636 
1,242,044 
1,189,794 
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 77 
   
 
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS: ENVIRONMENT1 
FY16 
FY17 
FY18 
CARBON EMISSIONS BY SCOPE 9 
METRIC TONS OF CO2 
Scope 1 
27,203 
24,095 
22,183 
Scope 210 
263,050 
243,773 
218,855 
Scope 38 
967,383 
974,176 
948,756 
Total Carbon Emissions 
1,257,636 
1,242,044 
1,189,794 
Ofice Electricity Eficiency (kWh/square meter) 
196 
179 
167 
% Electricity from Renewable Sources 
18% 
21% 
24% 
ENERGY USAGE BY SOURCE9,11 
MWh 
Non-Renewable Electricity 
397,408 
376,439 
361,512 
Renewable Electricity 
85,461 
101,898 
111,574 
Natural Gas 
17,166 
15,485 
12,155 
Diesel 
12,255 
5,225 
3,839 
Total Energy Usage 
512,290 
499,047 
489,080 
ELECTRONIC WASTE BY DISPOSAL METHOD12 
METRIC TONS 
Avoided Landfill 
360 
302 
583 
Landfill 
<1 
<1 
<1 
Total 
360 
303 
583 
Total Water Consumption (cubic meters)13 
2,191,000 
2,179,000 
2,518,000 
Water Consumption per Employee (cubic meters) 
5.85 
5.39 
5.69 
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 78 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
SHAPING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS: SUPPLY CHAIN1 
FY16 
FY17 
FY18 
DIVERSE PROCUREMENT SPEND BY TYPE (US ONLY) 
US $ THOUSANDS 
Minority-Owned Business 
$351,468 
$355,519 
$450,992 
Women-Owned Business 
104,948 
100,620 
118,587 
Small Business 
74,965 
81,963 
75,171 
Other Type Business14 
9,129 
5,649 
1,731 
Total Diverse Procurement Spend (US Only) 
$540,510 
$543,751 
$646,481 
Diverse Procurement Spend as a Percentage of Total Procurement Spend (US Only) 
29% 
27% 
31% 
Footnotes 
1 
Some detail numbers may not sum exactly to total number due to rounding. 
2 
Net revenues excludes reimbursements (for example, travel and out-of-pocket expenses and third-party costs, such as the cost of hardware and software resales). 
3 
Accenture Foundations refers to independent charitable organizations that bear the Accenture name. 
4 
“Accenture-sponsored ‘Time & Skills’ Programs” comprise Accenture Development Partnerships, pro bono consulting and paid volunteering projects. 
5 
Values reflect our workforce as of December 31 of that year and do not include information from Avanade, a joint venture between Accenture and Microsoft that is 
majority-owned by Accenture. 
6 
“Executives” comprises our managers, senior managers, managing directors, senior managing directors and members of our Global Management Committee. 
7 
“Managing Directors” comprises our managing directors, senior managing directors and members of our Global Management Committee. 
8 
Emissions designated as “Core” represent those most directly associated with Accenture’s business model and align with total emissions reported prior to fiscal 
2016. As part of Accenture’s science-based emissions target, we now include Scope 3 emissions for fiscal 2016 onward resulting from procurement of other 
purchased goods and services as part of our total emissions inventory. 
9 
Detailed methodology for carbon emissions and energy usage calculations is available in Accenture’s CDP Climate Change response; 100% of Accenture’s 
fiscal 2018 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, as well as a small subset of Scope 3 emissions received a positive statement for a limited assurance review by an 
independent third party. 
10 
CO2 emissions related to Scope 2 Ofice Electricity reflect a market-based accounting approach as defined by the updated GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance. In 
line with the guidance, fiscal 2018 ofice electricity market-based emissions factor renewable electricity impacts as well as 4,234 tons of residual non-renewable 
emissions in Europe. Also in line with the guidance, we report CO2 emissions using a location-based approach, which for fiscal 2018 would be 279,221 tons for 
Ofice electricity and 282,026 tons for Scope 2. 
11 
In previous reports, values for “Non-Renewable Electricity” and “Renewable Electricity” were combined into a single value for “Electricity.” Prior year values 
disclosed for “Electricity“ are the same as the sum of values for “Non-Renewable Electricity“ and “Renewable Electricity.” 
12 
Electronic waste (e-waste) is the most significant environmental aspect in our waste stream and includes laptops and workstations with disposal method tracked in 
Accenture’s global asset management system. Other waste streams result primarily from our ofice-based activities, many of which include recycling services that 
are both inside and outside our operational control, and overall are not considered to have a significant environmental impact. 
13 
Fiscal 2018 total water consumption is derived from 66% measured data and estimating the remainder based on average per-workstation consumption 
from measured locations. 
14 
“Other Type Business” consists of the following subcategories: Service-Disabled Veteran, Veteran, Historically Black Colleges or Universities, and LGBT. 
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT  | 79 
 
 
ABOUT ACCENTURE 
Accenture is a leading global professional services company, providing a broad 
range of services and solutions in strategy, consulting, digital, technology and 
operations. Combining unmatched experience and specialized skills across more 
than 40 industries and all business functions—underpinned by the world’s largest 
delivery network—Accenture works at the intersection of business and technology 
to help clients improve their performance and create sustainable value for their 
stakeholders. With 477,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries, 
Accenture drives innovation to improve the way the world works and lives. 
Visit us at www.accenture.com. 
We welcome your feedback. 
Copyright ©2019 
All rights reserved. 
